We're the ConsenSyns real estate team, and we're focused on re-imagining the world's largest industry real estate to be more open and transparent. We started this journey through a range of projects. So far, we've worked on projects constructing property right ecosystems from the ground up from land titling, registries, and even helping commercial real estate giants understand the impact on blockchain in their industry. But we aren't done yet, real estate is the largest asset class in the world, roughly $27,200, and we've only scratched the surface. If you think about it, everyday you're surrounded by real state. There's your home door on the way to the city, brows of stores of shopping your commercial area, and local restaurants to meet your friends for dinner. Real state is a unique asset class, because it's tangible. For the most part, it has been one of the most stable asset classes in our recent history. Though we see and touch real estate everyday, the transaction ecosystem for real estate is completely in the dark. There are three major challenges that we think about when we think about real estate coming into the light: one, rigid ownership models, two, opposing stakeholders, and three, transparency. Let's talk a little bit about rigid ownership models. Real estate tends to be a zero some game, either you own it or you don't, and there's no one between. This model has been a barrier for the average home seeker, up to institutional investors, and even co-owners. For the average home seeker, this means you'll probably have to lock up roughly 300 percent of your net worth in one asset. If you want to know why that's a bad idea, just wiki the 2008 housing crisis. For institutional investors, this means it's really difficult to create a diversified portfolio of real estate investments, which is the past to the promised land or investment nads, call it the efficient frontier. Buying an entire building is not only incredibly expensive, both time and money wise, but it's also a highly concentrated investment that creates high stakes, and even slower movements from the market. Basically, putting all your eggs in one basket is against good portfolio management theory. For co-owners, this means facing the same issues plus legal complexities, and a process that is right with high transaction costs to make such an investment unattractive. Let's talk a little bit about the second problem, opposing stakeholders. The real estate industry consists of three major stakeholders essentially: you have your property seekers, you have service providers, and you have institutional owners who are all basically pit against each other in a complicated expensive dual, that finds profits by creating inefficiencies, complicated processes and hiding information from one another. The system is completely misaligned to say the least. So, now let's talk about transparency and one of the biggest challenges that we see. Have you ever tried to trace the history of property? If you have, you've probably just given out. There just isn't a great way to represent ownership, allow it to be bought, and sold, and assign specific governance rights. Tracking such information would radically transform market research, fee structures, and investment protocols. This is just to name some of the benefits. Considering these challenges, new market entrants like real estate crowdfunding startups have attempted to dismantle these issues and they may some considerable headway in challenging the rigid ownership model, except they still have a lot of work to do. Bringing true shared ownership to a market with a consumer focus on transparency, which would be the real game changer. Until now, enter blockchain. Real estate is a confluence of many different sectors: finance, law, accounting, and of course the construction of the physical asset itself. A blockchain based property ownership system brings many unique capabilities to improve each of these sectors. With blockchain property ownership, you could store complicated legal documents in the same place as your platform and trade, and you can automate the terms in each of these contracts. Manual processes such as accounting, taxes, and legal agreements can all be housed in the same transparent and secure system, and the terms and conditions on each of these can be quantifier. But a blockchain based property ownership system also opens up the opportunity for unique governance and voting rights. Allowing people to easily vote on the property decisions such as property management, home improvements, and tenant ownership. Voting power can be related to their percentage of ownership in that property itself. But a singular blockchain based system of record to house all of these traditionally manual processes, is just the first step in real estate. The next step which is the one that we're most excited about at the moment, is the ability to create ownership shares in your individual property by using the theorem blockchain to create tokens that represent shares. Blockchain is a great tool to create factional and transparent ownership on any property, because tokens can be created in any digital or physical asset which can represent ownership and an asset amongst many other things. With a token-based ownership model in a property, you can create a token representation of the assets as per one to shares. You can store these shares securely in any individual digital wallet, where the user's identity can be verified and you couldn't allow the peer to peer exchanges shares without the need for another intermediary, that may add on extra fees there. Finally, with all of these ownership shares and transfer happening in the same ledger, everything is transparent and tracked. This essentially allows you to create a wreath at the individual property level, but in a much more cost effective and traceful way. These shares and individual properties can be transferred peer to peer online, and now it can be feasible for someone to own just 10 percent of the property and sell it to their friend with little to no friction. The ability to buy, sell and manage in fractional property ownership is an incredibly new and exciting opportunity. That's why we're so excited about our current endeavor and consensus real-estate which is project Pangea. Pangea is a platform for creating, managing, and trading fractional ownership shares in real estate assets. Investors gain access to a wide range of properties with greater liquidity and lower capital requirements than traditional real estate investing. Asset owners and investors both benefit from an easy-to-use web application, house's property dashboards, due diligence documents, and facilitates peer to peer trades back and forth. Our mission, is to make real state investing simple and accessible to all. Welcome to a demo on Pangea platform. A platform for creating, managing, and transferring fractional ownership shares and real estate assets. So, if I log in here, I'm taken to my portfolio page where I can see a listing of all the different properties that I own some value in. We create a token for each individual property, which you can see here on the right. You can also see the US dollar value equivalent for each token that we own. Up at the top of the portfolio page, you can see aggregated metrics for an entire portfolio including the total account value, total returns since the time we started investing, the monthly rental income we expect to be directly transferred to our wallets each month and the cash available on hand. So, let's take this cash to good use and go house hunting. If I go over to the Browse properties tab, I can see all the different properties that are available on the Pangea platform. If I like something, I can click into it such as this Icon Bay property. So, on the property page, I can see some summary information on the property to the right here, including the location, the asset type, the valuation and the price per square foot. Down below, I can also see the rental information for the property. I see that the least states are through August of this year and then has a 94 percent occupancy rate. At the bottom, I can also see expenses that I can expect to incur as a property owner. Over here on the left, I can download diligence documents related to the property for things such as the appraisals and the property value. I can also download the financial details into excel, so I can plug and play with my own models. This Icon Bay property looks really good. I think I'll go ahead and purchase some tokens. So, if I click Purchase tokens here, it's actually a two-part transaction. I'll be trading individually with another member on the platform. In this case my friend Mo Sheikh. I think I'll buy 400 tokens for two ETH. You can see here at the bottom, the US dollar value equivalent of the even price. So, in this two-part transaction, I first create a trader quest. This pop-up here, is actually MetaMask which is a Chrome browser plug in, that connects to the theory on blockchain. So, I first submit that request, and it gives me a confirmation here, I'm requesting 400 IBA tokens for two ETH promotion. Let's go ahead and send that request and submit. Great. So, the trader quest has been sent. Let's go over to most view over here. As Mo, I would've received a email notification saying that Corbin wants to trade with me. So, if I go to Mo's notification tab, I can see the latest trade request here. Let's click into that. So, I'm being offered two ETH for 400 IBA tokens from Corbin. I think that looks like a pretty good deal. So, I'll go ahead and accept that trade. For my head I'll also have to sign the transaction using MetaMask. Great, the trade has been completed and posted on to the theorem blockchain and I just traded property online. This has to be the easiest real estate transaction I've seen. If I go back to my portfolio, you can see that my tokens for Icon Bay had been debited. As Mo, I also have additional administration rights as a property sponsor. So, let's look into those features. In my Admin dashboard, I can see all of the tokens here that I've issued on Pangea, all the different assets that I'm a sponsor of that I've listed on the Pangea platform, and the various users that are eligible to invest in those properties. I can also easily add a token. Here, I'll just have to select the asset for which I want to launch a new token. Let's say I want one for Icon Bay, I will just need to enter some additional details like the name, symbol, and supply and press this create button. As easy as that, I would have created a new token on the blockchain. Let's look into one of the properties that we already have tokens for, like this 304 Troutman properties. Here at the top, I can see the different financial details and summary information of this token including the total supply and the market count, which is actually just the appraisal of the underlying asset value. If I go to the metrics and reports tab, I can see all of the different investors in this property and the percentage allocation for each. Over here on the right side, I can see the asset price. This green line here, is actually just the asset value from the ongoing appraisals. You can see traditionally this asset value hasn't changed in the past few months. This blue line however, is the valuation based on the token prices and you can see it's dynamically trading around that underlying asset value. If you go into the transactions tab, you can also see all of the different transactions that have occurred related to this asset. So, that's an overview of the Pangea platform. We're excited about the possibilities it brings to the real estate market and we'd love to hear from you, to learn more information and hearing your thoughts. Thank you so much for watching.