Were future in music. Our team is focused on re-imagining the creative industries starting with music. Many of us came from creative backgrounds, but as we approached adulthood, we realized that being a musician or artist was not feasible for your bet. So, we started this journey exploring how blockchain could best make an impact in music, and how we can make it more equitable for creators. Music is one thing that everyone has a connection to, just like food. Whether it's cultural, or commercial, music plays a part in all of our lives, and we all have our own unique relationships with it. Except, many of us rarely stop to think about how those musicians are getting paid. When we started this journey, we thought that people would be keen to adopt the latest technologies. Quickly found this quote to be true? "In the race to adapt new technologies, the music industry has historically finished just ahead of the Amish." Stan Cornyn, former Warner Music Group Exec. We found that we needed to start from scratch. Create a new adjacent music industry that starts and ends with artists, if we really wanted to make a difference. Starting from scratch, it helps to consider what the focus is. Building a new music industry, one that benefits the artists, helps to focus directly on others. If you look at the current tools for managing your brand, or yourself, your options are really endless. Most musicians find themselves on several different platforms such as, Spotify, Apple, YouTube, and the many others, fragmenting their voice, and more importantly their data. The data about who their fans are. Why they are, how much they listen to them, and how much they should be getting paid for it. Fans are not split among their streaming platform of choice. The artists rights are held in different data silos that don't talk to each other. This combination makes it very difficult to figure out who to pay, and for what they are paying for? Major labels own roughly 70% of recorded music highlights that are consumed today. Over the past three decades, the number of labels representing artists, amassing this share of the market is consolidated to three major labels. At the same time, music outlets consolidated. Before music was digital, music sales were facilitated by local record stores, each carrying their own tastes. As outlets for accessing music had decreased the ability for those who own the catalogs to manipulate what is put infront of the consumers, is on the increase. Under-the-table deals, have become standard today, in getting a place. For those to become paid placement spots that single-handedly can make, or break an artist. The deeper we dug into the existing industry, the more we realized that it wasn't the lack of efficiency that was the problem. It was the human element. Reaping the driving factor, instead of what matters most, music. The existing companies are successful with their current organization, although their artists may not always be. In order to prove the potential of the theory in our vision, we decided to draw a line instead. All the existing music in the world, we'll get to that eventually. But it's time to start over. It's time to give artists a choice to go down the traditional route, or take a risk and start to pave the way for the future of the music industry. By drawing a line and starting a new, we have a lot more work to do. At the same time, we gave a lot of liberty, and exploited new revenue opportunities for artists. In fact, what started as an exploration of using a theory in smart projects for royalty payments, has evolved in discovering new artists and fan monetary relationships, that were never before possible. Blockchain is a great mechanism for the industry, for many reasons including- Creating digital identity that manages ownership over content. Allowing direct artist-fan transactions. Tracking each ownership transfer, and maintaining metadata in a transparent database linked to a permissionless ledger, and a few other reasons we can't share yet, but we're super excited to introduce soon. We chose a platform for managing an artistic career consisting of, open-source libraries, service ledgers, and applications that integrate the two. With our first application, artists can upload their music, set licensing policies, and testing monetization methods for consumption, that can be programmatically accessible across applications. Fans can purchase music directly, interact with the exclusive content and collect badges that signify their relationship with music. Developers can harness music using Ujo as a service, following licensing policies, to integrate music and new innovative solutions for both artists and fans. Our mission is to make music simple and accessible to all, while paying artists fairly and quickly. Build future music here ConsenSys, by using the F hearing blockchain to create a home for artists. I'm ready to show you how it works. Okay. So, this is the creator's portal, Ujo's first project. Right now, we're in alpha mode. So, we'll go through the sign-up process. First, you need to register yourself as a person, which we will do right here. Agree to the terms of service, create person, and then you go about creating an artist. Upload some content, and then we create a transaction in which this person and artist will be stored on the Ethereum blockchain, attributed to your unique wallet address. So, here, we have the artist dashboard with the content that we have just uploaded. So, from here, we can go to create a release. So, here we're going to enter in some content. Select what songs we would like to use. Select a genre. You can even reorder the content, get a preview of what it looks like, and then we can set licensing policies. So, in the future, we imagine having lots of different licensing policies, which can all be programmatically accessed and set via our service layers. Publish. Again, it'll file another transaction in order to store this content on the blockchain. Looks up the money mass transaction, and now we will be able to view the store page for this content. Here it is. Because we are the owner of this content, as you can see, we're able to just download it. However, if we were visiting someone else's store, from here, we could see that we are able to purchase this release right here. Again, accepting a mass transaction, and now we're able to download. And that's it.