[MUSIC] So what is cryptography? Chances are you've heard the word. Today, cryptography is essential to pretty
much every part of cybersecurity we have. But it's actually been around for
a long time. From the Greek cryptography
translates to hidden writing. And it's as old as the earliest
messages we ever wrote using codes or ciphers, like this one. This was actually used by Julius Caesar
to keep military communications private. His cipher involved shifting each
letter left by three in the alphabet. The basic idea here is that we use some
kind of algorithm to scramble our messages before sending them, so that they just look like gibberish
to anyone who might read them. The only ones who can actually
read the message are those we share the algorithm with, or
those who can figure out the algorithm. The Cesar cipher is,
by modern standards, very easy to break. Now flash forward,
a couple thousand years. Today we send messages
digitally through the Internet. Suppose Alice here wants
to send a message to Bob. The problem is we live in
a world of unencrypted networks. On the Internet, there's always a third
party handling our communications. Communicating over a public
unencrypted network means that anyone along the path of the Internet traffic
from point A to point B can intercept and read the messages if they want to. It's a lot like sending a message
on a postcard in the mail. You know that the mail person
can read it if they want to, anyone in the truck can read it, or
anyone at the processing facility. You get the idea. But if Alice is sending something
important like her banking information, she doesn't want everyone
to be able to read it. So the question becomes,
is there a way for Alice to send Bob a message over
the same public unencrypted network but still insure he's the only
one who can read it? There is,
it's called public-key cryptography. And this is how it works. For Bob to receive encrypted messages,
he'll need two related cryptographic keys, a public one he can share with anyone
who wants to send him a message, and a private one that
he keeps to himself. Let's call them public key A and private key A, because they're
a matching pair, like a lock and key. Its a little confusing calling
both keys because the public key is used a bit like a lock. Public key A is used to encrypt or
perhaps lock messages and private key A is decrypts messages but only if they were
encrypted with the matching public key A. The public key is called that because
it can be shared openly, for example, sent along the open network to Alice. It can't unlock anything by itself. Public key A can encrypt a message but
not decrypt a message that it encrypted. That is it can't unlock
a message that it locked. So it doesn't matter who else
on the network might have it. Private key A, on the other hand, must be
kept private because it can decrypt, or unlock messages encoded with public key A. So that's why Bob has to keep it private. So Alice takes her message and
Bob's public key and applies an encryption function, so that she'll get a bunch of what's called
ciphertext, which looks like gibberish. This ciphertext can be sent
publicly on the open network. A third party may be able to see that
Alice and Bob are communicating, but there is no way to tell
what they're saying. And since Alice used Bob's public
key A to encrypt the message, the only corresponding key that
can decrypt it is private key A. And since Bob is the only
one in possession of that, Alice can be assured that
only he can read the message. Think of it as a mathematical one-way
process, where, once a message is encoded with someone's public key, the only way to
read it is with that person's private key. And it's all but impossible to decrypt or
hack the message without it. So you might be wondering what's
all this got to do with blockchain? Well public key cryptography is
integral to making blockchain secure. It's the foundation for
how digital wallets work, and how tokens are traded,
and how identity is verified. We'll learn more about
this in upcoming lessons. Public key cryptography is what is used
to create verifiable historical records of transactional data. It's the very thing that makes it possible
for us to build systems that are run by the global community,
systems that can be truly decentralized. [MUSIC]