Nodes are the computers that make up a blockchain network. Traditionally, the Internet has been server-based structured with a server in the middle and clients all connected to it, something like what you see here. In this architecture, anyone who wants to interact with an online service connects to the same server. There are a couple of big drawbacks here. First, the bandwidth demands on that server are very high since all traffic goes to and from it. All of the pathways that exist for data between the networks participants go unused here. Second, there is a single point of failure. If the server crashes or gets hacked,, the system will cease to function and there's certainly a concentration of power here. Whomever controls the server controls the system which isn't necessarily a bad thing but it is a feature in this model to take note of. An alternative to the server-based model is the peer-to-peer model. Here peers all connect to one another and are all equal. Examples of these include the Ethereum network, Bitcoin and BitTorrent. Here information can flow freely between nodes optimizing the use of available bandwidth. These systems are also resilient to failures in individual peers and more resilient to network attacks. Peer-to-peer is the model that blockchains use. There's nothing special about a node if you want to participate in the Ethereum blockchain, you could download the software and make your computer a node right now. You can install other peer-to-peer software too and run them all simultaneously if you wanted to. One of the most attractive features of decentralized blockchain networks is that anyone can join them and a community of people can share authority. Systems can develop that are truly democratic. You don't need permission to join them. Unless of course you're talking about a permission to blockchain which is something we'll talk about in an upcoming lesson. Nodes are the gateway to and the stewards of the blockchain. They are the systems that communicate with one another, ensure the validity of the blockchain, and store local copies of it. There are different kinds of nodes. Full nodes store the entire blockchain and verify everything, every single transaction. Other nodes called light nodes store just a portion of the blockchain. Miners are separate from nodes. They don't store the blockchain, they are network participants who create blocks and send them to nodes who verify and include them or reject them. A node could also be a miner but it need not mine. When a full node receives a valid block from a miner, it includes it in its local copy of the blockchain and broadcasts that block out to a few other connected nodes who also check the block and broadcast it out and so on. In this way, the block spreads across the entire network and the process starts again on the next block. That's it for our look into the basic technical side of blockchain. In the next module, we'll widen our scope and look at other kinds of blockchains and extensions that enhance them.