In this lesson, once again, we call on the work of Blockchain Research Institute
contributor, Joel Telpner. He's Chair of the Fintech and Blockchain Practice
at the law firm, Sullivan and Worcester. We look at some
general principles to guide blockchain
regulation development. We must always identify the rationale for regulation
as a starting point. Internet and finance innovations
offer a guide because the rationales for these markets apply somewhat to blockchain too. We hope to improve data handling, agency expertise in coordination, and to fill regulatory gaps, also to incentivize stewardship
of the ecosystem overall, stewardship what's beyond
required by regulation. We also need to include
the adaptability and flexibility required in our
regulations and markets, and make sure that diverse stakeholders are
involved in the process. As long as we do it
the right way to support not to impede
the developing market, we've rationale
aplenty to develop clear and certain regulations. So, a guiding principle
must be to pair regulations with the evolution of distributed ledger
technology the best we can. Environments like the growing
blockchain ecosystem, where facts are
unclear and evolve, this is sometimes
beyond the ability of regulators to understand
and to manage. A wait-and-see approach may be the only feasible balance
between premature action and acting too late to avert harm or to uproot bad practices. With technology evolving as
unpredictably as blockchain, stiff regulations are obsolete as quickly as they're issued. Regulation development
should track with the technology's
development. Regulators cannot
afford to underestimate the speed force and the scope of this
particular disruption. It's clear technological change happens faster than
social change, and certainly faster than
regulatory response. So, we need to focus
on buy-in and identify new ways to achieve
existing goals. Blockchain-based solutions
will grow and influence and results clearly in
a radical economic shift and some big changes. Regulations based on
certain approaches and old economy embedded costs
will need to be re-imagined. New technologies and
methodologies may have significant and
unexpected influence on how those regulations
operate and are enforced. So, policymakers must identify the actors and aspects of
the old way of doing business. One way to approach this
is to focus on users, how they're helped to earn
by blockchain applications. We need to distinguish
upfront between regulation of the blockchain, regulation of applications running on distributed ledgers, and regulation of
the ecosystem overall. Bitcoin is a perfect example. It has lots of different uses who touch
lots of different users. So, the chameleon-like
characteristics of cryptocurrencies tell us that a one-size-fits-all regulatory approach doesn't work. Policymakers should
always begin with the application, how it's used, who will use it, and so on because applications will drive blockchain usage. This approach should help
regulators identify and analyze the social costs and benefits
of blockchain applications. As a policy matter, brokers and exchangers have
a special responsibility to ensure the safety and soundness
of securities markets. Some argue the best approach is the use of regulatory threats, the threat to enact
laws or to impose new regulations if
people don't behave. Regulatory threats take the form of warning letters,
interpretations, and reports or speeches by the heads of
regulatory bodies, private meetings with parties,
and also enforcement. Combining a wait-and-see
approach with the occasional regulatory threat may give regulators time to undertake the
necessary research and analysis to learn about
technologies while stepping in as needed to
protect the public in the case of clearly
egregious acts. This approach also allows regulators to use
some public policy, developing new forms
and practices, without locking in
premature and inflexible rules. So, selective regulatory
threats can serve as pilot programs for
eventual rule-making. They can spark
productive public debate. Those aren't possible when formal rule-making processes are dominated by regulators,
lawyers, and lobbyists. But the overall rule of regulatory threats is
likely to be limited. It still can't serve,
in the long-term, to allow regulators
to do informally what they lack formal
authority to undertake. Threats made without
the proper authority are nothing more than
abuses of power. A regulatory sandbox is a more benign testing ground for new business models not governed
by current regulations. The UK Financial
Regulatory Authority launched a regulatory
sandbox in 2015. So, firms could test products and services in
a controlled environment. Sandboxes are being used in
other jurisdictions like the province of Ontario organized by the Ontario
Securities Commission. Testing in a sandbox, at least in theory, lets firms reduce time
to market at lower cost. They can identify
appropriate consumer protections and gain better access
to finance. Distributed ledger technology was the most popular technology
at the UK programs outset. Several firms use
the sandbox to test run its deployment across sectors. Regulatory sandbox aren't always appropriate and should
be used carefully. But when conducted responsibly, they can be a helpful tool
for observing how innovators might use highly disrupted and unpredictable technologies. Markets suffer when
regulators don't attempt to coordinate and harmonize
their efforts as well. They need to work with jurisdictions overlapping
theirs within a nation state and also
between countries. Regulators learned
this lesson during the 2008 financial crisis. They collaborated
afterward to reform derivatives markets
on a global scale. We also see the effects
of poor coordination among the Securities and
Exchange Commission, the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, and the Financial Crimes
Enforcement Network on the treatment of
ICO-issued tokens. Minimizing unintended
consequences is a great aspirational goal, but it's easier said than done. At the very least, Nascent technologies have
a life of their own, something regulators
must take into account. Regulatory attempts,
if too heavy handed, can push the technology
and its users to explore unanticipated
directions. Such force can even drive developers and users underground, or outside of a country, or otherwise beyond
regulatory reach in search of more
favorable jurisdictions. This has happened
in many countries, where some of
the best innovations and innovators and
entrepreneurs have been forced to go to a more understanding jurisdiction to say raise money using an ICO. Now, this doesn't mean we should hold off
trying to regulate new and unpredictable
technologies like blockchain. But also regulators must
acknowledge that, often, they just don't know whether a blockchain application
will lead to an ultimately net-positive
or even negative outcome. Forecasting is difficult and, in some cases, it's impossible. So, flexibility is key. We don't want to use
a hammer to attack everything that needs to be done in this construction site. Social norms developing with distributed ledger
technology become easier to identify as
the ecosystem stabilizes, and over time,
regulatory intervention becomes easier too as we start to track the evolution and grow resistant to unforeseen forces. Once we have some predictability
in the technology, it'll be easier to
mesh regulations with the new framework
for social norms.