In this video, we'll
call on the work of Blockchain Research Institute
contributor, Joel Telpner. He's chair of the Fintech and
Blockchain practice at the law firm,
Sullivan & Worcester. We'll identify the most relevant legal and regulatory questions to ask and develop a framework
for Blockchain regulation. When regulators face an industry in a state of high uncertainty, they have three
possible responses. They can make new laws, they can just observe, or they can periodically
issue reports, guidance, and even threats. The situation may call for some combination of
these responses. To determine
which approach is best, we need to start with the
process of informed questioning. Intervention to
protect human life, of course, is always
a top priority. But otherwise,
regulators should ask some basic questions about
Blockchain before they set new regulations and apply existing regulations to
something that's very new. The most basic question is
whether the Blockchain and/or the various activities
that are growing using this technology should
be self-regulated, government regulated,
or unregulated. Historically, regulation
works best when there's a balanced combination
of all three approaches. Despite the view of
Blockchain anarchist, the internet taught us that the lack of
physical boundaries doesn't put technology
beyond a regulator's reach. A critical question is this; does this technology raise
unique legal issues? If Blockchain technology
lets us chase and reach our current
objectives in new ways, we may need to consider how
we regulate those pursuits. Significant tech
advancement can alter how laws and regulations
function even when the changes have
nothing to do with the affected laws and
regulations themselves. Acknowledging this type
of impact is a star. Whether the impact
raises truly novel, legal issues is
a separate question. Another question is what exactly are we
trying to regulate? Any discussion must cover the whole Blockchain ecosystem of which Bitcoin and other
cryptocurrencies are just a part. It needs to separate regulation
of the ecosystem itself from regulation of
distributed applications that run on these platforms. There are different concerns and stakeholders at each level. Regulatory efforts
must incorporate such differences if
they're going to succeed. Cryptocurrencies don't
meet the strict definition of legal tender in our view. They aren't backed by the full faith and credit
of any government. They don't qualify
as a fiat currency, electronic money, or as
a payment instrument. The Financial Action Task Force, an inter-governmental
body established in 1989, and it defined a virtual
currency as "a digital representation of value. It can be digitally
traded and functions as a medium of exchange
and/or a unit of account, and/or a store of value, " and that's right. If cryptocurrencies function
that way in practice, should they be regulated as money or at least
in a similar way? Well, in the United States, Bitcoin and its peers
are considered commodities under
the US Commodities Exchange Act. Lots of ICOs released tokens with features falling
outside the definition of a virtual currency. These tokens function more
like membership interests, so are frequent flier miles or bits of software that
represents some functionality. But those things are
usually subject to transfer restrictions while Blockchain tokens
typically aren't. So, it's not a simple one-to-one. Alternative tokens that trade on prices based on
the perceived value of their platforms and projects sound like a security to some. In this context, purchasing an alternative
Blockchain token is less like a currency
investment and more like an equity investment. So, the US Securities and
Exchange Commission, the SEC, thinks their securities should be regulated by security's rules. Regulators can decide of current laws do or
should apply to Blockchain technologies
as they assess whether an application is
a new medium or a new activity. Problem is regulators
don't usually work together to determine when a cryptocurrency is subject to one set of regulatory
requirements or another. Just because policymakers can
make existing laws work for Blockchain applications
doesn't mean they should. We may not be able to answer
this question without observing the new technology
in action over time. It may be necessary to
apply existing laws in the meantime because Blockchain evolves in rapid and
unexpected ways. Consider the gray area between currency, commodity,
and security. Just because something's called a cryptocurrency or
described as a token, doesn't automatically
mean that it's not a security, or it is. Four factors called
the Howey Test define an investment contract
or security as "an investment of money in
a common enterprise with an expectation of profits to be derived solely from
the efforts of others." The focus should be on economic reality,
substance over form. Cryptocurrencies and
tokens are unique despite the Security and Exchange
Commission's view. They act like a currency, a commodity, a security, or some combination of the three depending on
their characteristics, how they're being used, and who's using them
at any point in time. So, cryptocurrencies
may represent a completely new way
of raising capital. We can't always predict
what happens when regulators apply existing
regimes to new paradigms. Regulatory bodies
shouldn't charge head first into Blockchain without coordinating with
other regulators who may have legitimate
roles to play. Anytime officials proposed
new laws and regulations, they ought to conduct a
rigorous cost-benefit analysis. Premature rule-making can create confusion for merging industries, particularly when poorly
thought out rules result in multiple
judicial challenges. So, at the very least, informal processes may be the best approach giving
regulators time to conduct helpful cost-benefit analyses
prior to new formal rules. Global consensus and coordination among regulators is also critical to address the question
of whose law applies. The only way to avoid
unintended consequences is to understand the seamless nature of Blockchain applications. Global commerce is no stranger to regulating goods and
service disclosures, fraud and canceled transactions. So, moving to
a Blockchain ecosystem, relying on smart contracts
doesn't change that. Parties and smart contracts
had the ability to elect a governing law and to submit voluntarily to a particular
country's jurisdiction. The world has rich jurisprudence for dealing with these types
of conflicts of law, and nobody can say
with certainty what impact Blockchain
will have on this, and overall, on society. But regulators can develop scenarios and they
can test assumptions.