In this video, we'll
call on the work of Blockchain Research Institute
contributor, Joel Telpner. He's chair of the FinTech and blockchain practice
at the law firm, Sullivan & Worcester. We look at attempts to regulate the Internet previously and also financial
markets and what they can teach us about
blockchain regulation. The Internet is a good
comparison with blockchain, another disruptive in
global technology, and finance of course is tied to blockchain by cryptocurrency
applications like Bitcoin and the Ethereum and overall the digitization of financial assets,
which is underway. It's still no simple task
to regulate the Internet. It sits at the intersection of computing and communications,
and it's global. Some of the early
Internet pioneers insisted the Internet
couldn't be regulated because of its openness and its international
and global reach. A more mainstream group of users agreed the Internet was
free from state regulation, but they recognized the value
of self-regulation. Lots of blockchain users now repeat these arguments
almost word for word. It's safe to assume that
blockchain industry folks like early Internet developers
have more expertise than most regulators
do on the subject. We can learn from
the Internet's development in areas like technical
standards setting. In reality, the Internet
didn't develop in a fully regulation free zone. It's public adoption was marked by massive copyright
infringement, so much so international
treaties were signed to get a handle on the industry
shaking problem of piracy. The Internet of
information really broke our whole intellectual property
regime because it was a platform for
publishing information. We didn't have a platform
for communicating assets so we ended up
publishing assets, and that was a big problem. So there were treaties along with some heavy handed domestic
regulations to implement them, and they show us that the mainstream reaction is
two little self regulation. The debate over net neutrality
is a good example. Net neutrality means
broadband providers should allow equal access to
all content in applications. Supporters say it would lead to better information,
freedom of speech, prevent cost, discrimination,
encourage innovation, competition, and investment
in infrastructure. It would also make full Internet more accessible to everyone. Opponents argue that
a neutral network would actually decrease
innovation and investment. So the United States implemented a net neutrality policy under
the Obama administration. The current administration is
since reversed the policy. Regulators should watch what
happens next and still the lessons relevant to blockchain technologies and applications. We'll eventually find out
which approach actually protects the public and
promotes innovation. So blockchain, the second
era of the Internet, is also fundamentally
different from the first era. The first era enabled people and organizations
to communicate, copy, and manage information. The second era deals
much more with very fundamental things,
assets like money, securities, intellectual
property, our identities, cultural assets like
music, or votes. All of which there is
a stronger public interests. In these areas, societies expect governments
and regulators to get involved and to protect
their interests and to ensure that there's
no criminal behavior and to create stable, opened, and well-functioning
market places. So the old view,
hands-off the Internet, doesn't apply
the same way to hands-off blockchain because it's dealing with assets at the core
of our economy. We can elect to finance
when asking whether complex problems call
for complex regulation. Some 9.3 million
American families lost their homes in the great
mortgage meltdown of 2008. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
Protection Act of 2010 was the answer
to this crisis. But that regulation
is thousands of pages long and
contains hundreds of provisions requiring
US regulators to make and roll out new rules and
conduct dozens of studies. The big financial services
institutions have spend billions of dollars to
comply with these new rules. Community banks and credit unions who don't have those kinds
of resources have struggled. The cost of complying with the new rules has hit them hard. Over half of those people pulled on Dodd-Frank's impact agreed. Financial services regulation had little effect or destabilize
markets even more. Regulators need to
pause and to learn from the unintended consequences of their overreaction to a crisis
or to some new innovation. European Parliamentary
Research Services issued this caution. They said legal systems
may not be able to assert any control
over the borderless, decentralized activities taking place on distributed ledgers. Geographically defined
legal systems don't usually prosecute crimes
beyond their borders, and in a sense
national regulation is the wrong size for this global technology
and global economy. So blockchain will
test the resolve of local officials who tried to assert their separate and
sometimes opposing interests. Blockchain community needs to push governments
before it's too late. They need to push for adoption of a set of global
blockchain rights, guiding government's
approach to regulation. These rights should address a minimum things like unrestricted access to
blockchain applications, as appropriate, unless
those applications violate our overall
social contract. They should also address the balance between your right to distribute and to
access information, and your right to privacy
and to protect your data. They should also address
the legitimate need for governments to restrict
the flow of information, provided it's infrequent and
the reasons are transparent. The enforcement of
contractual rights must also be enshrined because
international commerce depends on such confidence. These rights must also keep
in mind civil societies wide-ranging a variety of standards for measuring torches, libelist, and defamatory acts. Blockchain applications
will continue to push the limits on how to deal with
such varied perspectives. We mustn't use distributed
ledger technology to disregard societies
behavioral norms, nor should regulators
disregard our core values. As with the Internet, there are different approaches
to the level of regulation around blockchain
development and growth. As for major brands
and institutions, for their work developing
blockchain applications to fit their existing products. They're creating apps
to handle all kinds of transactions more
cheaply and securely. Their large global
footprints can withstand the cost of regulatory compliance across multiple jurisdictions, and then the experience
and resources to deal with competing
regulatory demands. These dynamics don't
apply to start-ups, especially in this space. Small companies usually lack
the resources to create the needed policies and
procedures across jurisdictions. Sometimes regulators don't
even have start-ups on their radar and make no regulatory efforts
to monitor them. It's clear that there's
no single regulatory model we can apply to both powerful incumbents
wading into blockchain and to the smaller development
groups and startups. To complicate things,
such start-ups and entrepreneurs aim to disrupt how
we do business. Their new blockchain applications will eventually displace or could destroy current players
in market, after market. Think about what Amazon did to the traditional not
just book industry, but to the retail industry. Some of these businesses
hope to bring millions of people into
the global economy, especially in
developing markets with financial products
offered on blockchain. They work outside
traditional banking channels, outside the reach of current
regulations and oversight. A patchwork of
regulators won't cut it to govern a
blockchain-based market driven by small diverse players. A key challenge for
regulators is to protect the public interest
but not to crush innovation because
this technology is at the heart of building
a whole new innovation economy. Distributed ledgers have already changed how we do transactions, and it usually cuts the cost of intermediaries like exchanges
and clearing agents. The applications and
methods coming from these technologies may have significant unexpected effects on operations and
enforcement even when unrelated to
existing regulations. So policymakers need to rethink how they regulate
certain activities. Overall we'll be well-served if regulators understand
blockchain adopt principles tailored to
distributed ledger technology and then implement
them in an open, clear, and consistent way.