This module is about leadership for this second era
of the Internet, it's an era that's changed
by blockchain technologies. Blockchain alone is a tool. It's humans that build value, creating businesses and
solve social problems. Technology doesn't do that. Humans need to lead
for this technology to fulfill its long-term promise. Blockchains must be
self-governed through collaborations of
civil society, private sector, governments and stakeholders in non-state networks or networks that are not controlled
by nation states. State-based institutions can't lead through regulations alone. By the end of this module, you'll be able to
explain the difference between regulation and
government on the one hand, and governance on the other. Blockchain expertise lies
with developers and users, not with government bureaucrats
and regulatory bodies. So we need to educate
the full field of stakeholders from
governments to individuals, on the scope of
this disruption and about the block chains ability to unleash capability across
different sectors. So we're going to check out
some of the key issues, the trade offs and the scenarios related to blockchain
and regulation. Some current regulations
apply to blockchain use, lots more don't, and there's no framework in
place to fill the gap. But you'll also learn about
how the regulation of the Internet of information was governed and you'll
get insights into how we might regulate and govern
blockchain on a global scale. You'll be able to identify
different layers of the block chain technology stack
that need governance, and you'll understand
how these layers affect the whole challenge of
stewarding this resource. We'll discuss the idea of block chain governance networks. This is a term that
we've developed, and how they can support blockchain leadership and
stewardship at three levels. One is the platform level, where you find crypto currencies and other digital assets
like Bitcoin. At the application level, that's where you'll find standards that need
to be coordinated for the development of
apps that actually change businesses and
events in the real world. At the ecosystem level, we'll see leaders shape the future of
the technology overall. In all, you're going to learn what conditions are necessary for a blockchain based hub of innovation in a given
country to succeed, and that's really important. For preview of
the leadership that we need check out the new preface to the paperback edition of our book 'Blockchain Revolution'
as well as chapter 11. If you've got
questions or comments, please check out
the discussion forum.