In this video, we'll look at a very important issue
that affects you directly. We'll look at how regulation
differs from governance, and which parties are responsible for which and there's
a role for you. Regulations are laws designed
to control behavior. Governance when it's done right, is really about
stewardship, collaboration, and incentivizing work on common interests to
achieve common goals. The limits of government
in a time of accelerating innovation are revealed
by important shifts. For example, the 2008
financial crisis showed how the speed
and complexity of the global economic system make traditional centralized
rulemaking and enforcement more and
more ineffective. Stronger regulation alone
isn't the antidote. Governments can't hope to oversee every corner
of the economy, financial markets,
developing technologies. They're just too many actors, too many innovation,
too many products. But governments
can at least force transparency and shed
sunlight on behavior. They can also inspire change. Banks, online actions,
for example, can be made more transparent, and citizens and
other parties can be allowed to share their own data
and observations. Citizens can also help enforce regulations by changing
their buying behavior or better armed with
information by organizing public campaigns to name
and shame offenders. For millennia, states have
had a monopoly on money. They produce it, control it, grant it value based
on various metrics. Now, we can see how value can be created by individuals and groups working on a distributed, global, peer-to-peer network, and that value creation
could include money. Value creation and control aren't exclusive to
any central authority. So governments need
to acknowledge that their governance's role in the blockchain will fundamentally differ
from historically, monetary and financial roles. By temperament and
institutional design, the United States not
only tolerates but welcomes innovations pushing
boundaries and that's good. The Internet's birth and
development have shown us that. But the US also at
times has stifled innovation through misguided and
premature regulation. Experience proves
governments should approach technology
regulations cautiously, and act as collaborators
with other sectors in society rather than having
the "heavy hand of the law." We need a lighter touch
on regulation. They need to
participate as players in a bottom-up governance, ecosystem not as enforcers
in a top-down regime only. It's too risky to
lay down regulations before grasping
their potential impact. Instead of just regulating, governments can improve industry behavior by
increasing transparency and civic engagement as a complement to
existing regulatory systems. Regulators, blockchain
users, companies, society at large do need
to understand where blockchain can take us and how we might use it
for the common good. Sets called a
multi-stakeholder solution and it starts with education. To begin, people who are knowledgeable can
brief officials, regulators, and the media to
answer questions, network them, get a conversation going with people with knowledge. Some specific actions can strike the right balance between
regulation on the one hand and governance on
the other allowing blockchain technologies and
applications to flourish. We've got to educate and
help all stakeholders deal with what's called
regulatory disruption. Disruptive innovations typically
do challenge regulators. The faster a technology
evolves or the greater the degree of disruption to
business, to life, liberty, investing and so on, the more challenging it
is for regulators to understand what if anything
needs to be regulated. New products, services,
and practices coming from blockchain technology may fall within an agency's jurisdiction, but that doesn't
mean the agency has a ready framework
for this newcomer. So it's important to
figure out whether these unique actions are
just new media of transaction. Avoid premature regulation. If existing regulations
mostly work, then determine what the
minimum required modifications are to close that gap. Legacy regulation isn't itself a reason to intervene
or to not intervene. It is though part of
the current framework. Policymakers have to
think about because changes to one policy will
usually affect others. Interim measures like
interpretative guidance and statements of
best practices should be adopted especially to help us learn and to monitor the results. It's also important
to experiment and to test potential regulations. We should consider continuing ed, data collection, feedback loops, peer review projects, pilots, sandboxes are the ways of
gathering stakeholder input. Market-based and
private initiatives should also be encouraged. We can measure the effective
regulatory initiatives by how well the
proposed regulations strike a balance between maximize benefits
and minimize risk. If feedback from
this experimentation doesn't support the proposed
regulations aim, then don't adopt it. Also, we need to pursue
a national but also a global coordination
and consensus. Precedents in
cross-border commerce like international
financial markets and property protection can act as models for cross
border collaboration. There's opportunity in
public-private partnerships to take advantage of existing or newly formed
international trade groups and other multinational
organizations. We should embrace
the diverse personality of blockchain as an invitation for regulatory bodies
to collaborate instead of fighting turf wars. If new regulations do turn
out to be the way to go, think about these points:
When to intervene if at all. Waiting may or may not
bring better information. Try to think about the
possible drawbacks of waiting. Regulations can come
in the form of a rule, an adjudication, guidance etc. Weigh the costs and benefits of each configuration and figure out which best accommodates the uncertainties of
the innovation in question. Regulator actions
can be permanent, they can be temporary, or they can be conditional. Different innovations
will call for different interventions
with different durations. So the degree to which regulators sanction and way
enforcement against the novel products and new ways
of doing business that come from blockchain will vary by circumstance and
level of disruption. So regulators should try
their best to determine the unintended consequences of proposed regulation
or lack thereof. To a large degree this
is impossible to do with any precision for disruptive technologies
like blockchain. Both because their very nature
makes them unpredictable but because they can react
to thwart regulation. One way to consider
the consequences of regulatory intervention
is to think about what would happen if
all actors followed it. Regulators should consider
the global impact.