Welcome back. In this video, we'll look at our new framework for Blockchain Governance, and it involves you. For the first time
in human history, non-state multi-stakeholder
networks are forming to solve global problems and even to govern
resources in the world. These networks that
consist of private sector, civil society, governments
at various levels, are attacking
many problems and even governing resources like
old growth forests, fisheries, and even
the internet itself. We've been studying
these networks, and in 2010, we dubbed them global
solution networks, or GSNs. This approach goes far
beyond regulation. It can complement an existing
system of regulation. Governments can improve
the behavior of industries by encouraging
transparency and by including the public
and private sector in decision-making in governance
process of a resource. Our research led us to conclude
that if the internet of information could be
governed by these networks, then so could
perhaps the internet of value be similarly governed. Call it a Blockchain
Governance Network. There are several critical issues that we need to consider when creating a Blockchain Governance
Network. There's design. Should we start fresh or build something on existing networks? What's the network mandate? Will it have the power to
apply or enforce policy? Who's benefiting? Who's accountable? Will countries be involved? If so, will they yield authority
to a network like this? These networks all have two
defining characteristics. First, is composition. Each network involves a mix of different pillars of society. Private sector and companies, governments could
be at all levels not just states, could
be cities, academics, and non-government
organizations along with other players,
developers and users. They're not just a network of companies like
a trade association, and they're not
an organization of states like the UN or the World Bank or the International Monetary Fund. So they're multi-stakeholder. Second is control. These networks are not
controlled by states or by state based organizations like
the UN or the World Bank. In these networks,
all participants could play a key role in the leadership and the governance of
Blockchain technology. Now, what we discovered almost a decade ago
is that there are 10 types of these networks. We're going to focus in
detail on the top three; they're called
knowledge networks, policy networks, and
standards networks. A knowledge network develops new thinking; research, ideas, and policies to help solve global problems or to
help govern something. More informed users
can better protect themselves from fraud and theft and protect their privacy. They can create opportunities for greater share in
global prosperity and greater financial
connectivity. Knowledge networks do need to foster a culture of
openness and inclusion. They should be
transparent and they must involve multiple
stakeholders. Private sector, civil society, maybe even government and others. They are also sources
of new ideas for other of these GSNs
in the broader world. They prevent the pitfalls
and the showstopper. There's a real need today to
create spaces for ideas and information to be
shared and debated. So an example of a knowledge
network in Blockchain would be MIT's Digital
Currency Initiative. So leading Knowledge Network
in the academic space. It's trying to unite and excite academics in
universities globally, and it's producing very helpful knowledge
and information. Our Blockchain
Research Institute is another leading example
of a knowledge network, and that we're doing research
creating knowledge and educating C-suite executives
in the enterprise space. Reddit, the online
form and community is also a breeding ground for new knowledge in
the user's space. Secondly, there are
policy networks. These networks support
policy development and create alternatives regardless
of government support. Sometimes, networks create
government policy even though they may consist of
non-government players. Welcome to this new world of
multi-stakeholder solutions. Their goal is not
to wrest control of the policy-making process
from governments. Instead, it's to change the decision-making from the traditional closed
hierarchy to want to open discussion and
collaboration and to bring more diverse forces and factors into the process
of creating policy. A promising policy
network is emerging. Among its nodes are Coin Center and Not-For-Profit Policy
Group in Washington DC. Coin Center focuses
on five verticals; innovation, consumer
protection, privacy, licensing and
anti-money laundering, AML, or know your customer, KYC. There's also the Chamber
of Digital Commerce. It's a trade organization focusing on promoting acceptance and use of digital currencies
and Blockchain. Promoting policy and uniting
lots of strong voices in the policy area will ensure Blockchain has a better chance
of fulfilling its promise. We know proof of work mining
consumes a lot of energy. We also know climate change
is a serious problem. So responsible policy will
lead to a sustainable future, and government can't do it alone. A third type of
global solution network, that's part of the creation of a global Blockchain
Governance Network, focuses on standards. Standards networks are
non-state based organizations. But most standards
activity today in almost every area's not done by
nation-states anymore, it's done by these
multi-stakeholder groups. They develop standards and technical specifications
for almost anything. These include standards
for the internet itself. They determined
the central building blocks for product development. They also allow
promising innovation to make the leap
to mass adoption. To work, they need to engage the expertise
of individuals, institutions, civil society,
organizations, and private sector enterprise. Again, MIT's Digital
Currency Initiative recognize the importance
of Blockchain and the need for
guidance and standards. It's bankrolled
the Bitcoin core developers so that they can
continue their work. Scalingbitcoin.org is an organization
convening engineers and academics to address major technical issues
and develop standards. Its chair is Pindar Wong. He's been a leader and rallying
stakeholders and clearing technical log jams in
the sector for years. Each of these attack the problem from a different angle and
with a different agenda. Yet they do share
a common goal to make this technology ready for
prime time. All right. So now that we've covered
the three types of these GSNs critical to
Blockchain buildup, let's briefly look
at the other seven. Delivery networks bring
about the changes they seek. They just deliver stuff. ICANN is a Not-For-Profit
organization, and one of these
delivery networks. It performs an essential role
in the internet and in governing the internet in that
it delivers domain names. Advocacy Network seek to
change the agenda or policy of governments and corporations
and other institutions. In the world of the internet, an Advocacy Network would be the Electronic
Frontier Foundation. Watchdog networks monitor
institutions to hold those accountable who
act without integrity. Something like
Human Rights Watch is a watchdog network scrutinizing governments around the world to make sure that they correspond to global human rights
legislation. Topics for watchdog networks
can range from human rights, to corruption, to the environment,
to financial services. The next type of network is
something we call a platform. Platforms can foster creation innovation in
global problem-solving. Ethereum is a platform and has its own type of governance. Another type of these
networks are what we call networked institutions. These are very complex networks
involving a lot of players and providing
wide range of capabilities. They're true
multi-stakeholder networks, not state-based networks. Example would be
the World Economic Forum. It's actually called now
a global institution, but it's not
controlled by states. Then there are diasporas. These are global networks form by people dispersed from
their ancestral lands, but united by culture and
identity with their homeland. They can play a role in governance of
all kinds of things. Finally, you bring
them all together, this is something we call
governance networks. These combine all the
features and attributes of the nine other GSN types. So here's an issue for you. What's your role going to be in the governance of Blockchain? Well, you may think, why do I have to get involved in that? Well, sure you're
building a business, you're starting up a company, you're trying to transform
a big organization or government, you're a student. But just like business can't succeed in
a world that's failing, Blockchain can't
succeed unless it has good stewardship
and governance. This is a role for you. So, what do you want to do? You want to get
involved in standards. There are lots of
ways to do that. Would you like to
become an advocate? Join an advocacy network. Perhaps you'd like
to work with us in the Blockchain Research Institute to help to develop knowledge. Perhaps you're interested in the MIT Media Lab to help in
the creation of good policy. There are all kinds of
ways to get involved, and there's a way for you. You have a role to play, and Blockchain Governance is not somebody else's
responsibility, it's yours.