In this video, we'll
call on the work of Blockchain Research
Institute contributors. Primavera De Filippi
and Greg McMullen. We'll look at a framework for analyzing the Internet
applications, on which the Blockchain is built. Blockchain applications
ultimately operate on internet applications
and protocols. Each new layer of the stack, inherits the protocols and
rules of the layer below, including the lower layers
and governance. There are three main layers. The Internet layer,
the Blockchain layer, and the application layer. We begin with the internet layer, because block chain
networks cannot operate without
an internet connection. Blockchains like Bitcoin
and Ethereum rely on Transmission Control
and internet protocols also known as TCP-IP. These protocols
route and transfer data packets between
nodes on the internet. Blockchain systems may
be censorship resistant, but they're not entirely
censorship proof. Internet Service
Providers or ISPs, control the transportation layer
of the internet. They can discriminate
against packets going to or from these networks. Net neutrality is a foundational principle
of the Internet. It's the idea that
all traffic on the network, should receive equal priority. Information should be
transmitted as it is received. It shouldn't matter
who created it. This is critical for decentralized
peer-to-peer networks, like Blockchains. These networks rely on users unrestricted access
to the network. Both the United States and the European Union had rules and laws protecting
net neutrality. These rules safeguarded
internet users from ISPs offering
paid priority services, highlighting their
own bundled services, and downgrading
competing content. These laws also
encouraged innovation and competition in
network services. In December 2017, the US Federal
Communications Commission, the FCC, repealed
its net neutrality rules. This opened the door to increase interference at
the internet level. Let's look at
Deep Packet Inspection. This allows governments
and ISPs to restrict the use of cryptocurrencies
or other Blockchain systems, within specific countries
or around the world. Internet governance might
also play a role in defining who can join in the governance of specific Blockchain networks. One such barrier is data
caps imposed by ISPs. Customers can transfer
only a certain amount monthly. If the cap is exceeded, ISPs recoup costs
through overage fees, or reducing speed of service. Active participation in
the unchained governance of a Blockchain network
is bandwidth intensive. To vote as a minor, users typically download
the entire Blockchain and operate a full node. The amounts of data involves
can be quite sizable. Operating a node involves monthly data transfers of
between 70 and 140 gigabytes. The limits are imposed by choices made at
the internet level. The Great Firewall of China, through which all internet
traffic in China must pass, impeded mining operations. Extra limits on bandwidth and delays in packet transmission, hindered profit with
participants outside of China. To a large extent, China's
internet governance system had indirectly and unintentionally shaped
Bitcoin governance. Anyone designing
a Blockchain network or DApp, must understand the realities of the present day internet. They must create a system to suit them or work around them. The Blockchain layer operates on top of the internet layer, and introduces
mechanisms of governance and protocols unique
to each network. Each Blockchain network
implements its own protocols, its own consensus algorithms,
and fork choices. Despite their
technical complexity, Blockchain networks have a pretty simple set
of operating rules. They use cryptoeconomics,
to boost collaboration among users and increase the utility
of the network, and they also punish
users who tried to cheat. Processing transactions is driven mostly by an economic
incentive system. The higher the transaction
fees paid to the network, the greater chance miners will include these transactions
in the next block. Besides fees and rewards, four other factors influenced miner's behavior from outside
Blockchain infrastructure. A large mining pool
might contract with third parties to speed up certain transactions at
the expense of others. Miners could jointly
agree not to process specific transactions
coming from or directed towards and criminal
application and a blog. Miners could blacklist
specific addresses, or regulators could ban all miners in
certain jurisdictions, from validating transactions
of a specific account. These external forces
exist beyond the control of
any Blockchain system, and could have
significant consequences over the operations
of the systems. The application layer is also made up of its own
multiple layers. It includes,
two specific components. The DApp frameworks and
then the DApps themselves. DApp frameworks are
built on top of a Blockchain network and provide the basic building
blocks for DApps. Some are general purpose
with loosely defined logic. So developers can repurpose
in almost any DApp. Others are more specific
for certain kinds of DApps. DApps are of course
decentralized applications, built directly on top of
a Blockchain network, or on an existing DApp framework. They're designed to be
decentralized and autonomous. No single party has the power to control or influence
their operations. But still, they're affected
by the operations of their underlying
Blockchain network and their underlying
DApp framework. There are two ways to alter
the operation of a DApp. The first, is
changed the state of the Blockchain to overwrite
the code of the DApp. You might have heard
of the hack of the DAO which we covered earlier. In response,
the Ethereum community did what's called a hard fork. That meant basically altering the protocol and the state of the Ethereum Blockchain so that users could withdraw
their stolen funds. These Hard forks can change
the balance or code of a particular DApp or even
delete the DApp entirely. This level of intervention
is rare and has been used really only an
outstanding circumstances, and not without some controversy. The second change, is to a small piece of the
code the DAPp lies on, like a smart contract
library or proxy contract. A proxy contract is a smart contract delegating calls to other smart contracts. We must make sure there isn't a reference to
a third party code. Otherwise, risks like
manipulation of shared code, or undue influence over decentralized
applications may arise. To summarize,
Blockchain applications exist in a larger ecosystem
and not in a vacuum.