In this video, we'll
call on the work of Blockchain Research
Institute contributors, Primavera De Filippi
and Greg McMullen. We'll look at the multiple
layers of governance and the possible effects on
the blockchain ecosystem. The two distinct governance
structures on blockchain, are governance by
the infrastructure and governance of
the infrastructure. These mechanisms can be
either endogenous or exogenous to
a particular community depending on that
communities viewpoint. Endogenous rules consist of all the rules, the social norms, the customs and
other governance structures developed or endorsed from
within that community. Exogenous rules are
all other rules influencing the activities
of community, but originating from
outside that community. You may recall from
the prior session, how governance of most decentralized
blockchain applications or DApp's splits into
different layers. Of course, the first layer, the Internet Protocol layer,
known as TCPIP. The second, the
blockchain network layer, like the Ethereum
protocol and the third the application
layer such as DApp frameworks like Oregon and the DApp layer District 0X. Each layer designed and run by different people with
different purposes and from separate communities, who might converse
with one another. Usually, communities from
the bottom layer of the stack enact their own
governance structure with little regard to
the above layers. These layers also apply
their own governance structure, but they are still related to the governance structures
of the other layers. The bottom layers play
an especially important role. They are the foundation. They dictate how the applications deployed on the upper layers
of the stack will operate. They define what's possible to build at the highest levels. Governance by the
infrastructure refers to governance rules encoded directly into the blockchain itself. We call this,
On-Chain Governance. These rules are usually absolute and
the blockchain network will guarantee their execution in a secure and decentralized way. As I said, the nature of the rules depends on
the community's perspective. Let's look at Ethereum. It's blockchain protocols
and consensus algorithm are endogenous rules because they're directly built into the network. But if a DApp were deployed
on top of Ethereum, endogenous rules would
also include all of the decision-making
procedures and technical rules embodied in the smart contracts
that govern that DApp. The underlying protocol of the Ethereum network
would qualify at that point as exogenous because it's
an outside influence. On-chain governance presents both advantages
and disadvantages. On-chain governance
is predictable and fair in its execution. Changing the process
or the result of on-chain governance
is extremely difficult. This makes the entire system fully transparent and auditable. Everyone can see why
a particular decision was made and it's not influenced on
the whims of human judgment. Because on-chain governance
isn't easily influenced, it's unlikely to handle new and unexpected
situations effectively. In such cases, vagueness can
be a feature, not a bug. Flexibility can help
a system cope with unique circumstances
it was not built for. Where possible, developers
should provide tools allowing changes to
the protocol rules that are supporting the network. Let's look at developers and
open-source communities. They arranged the rules and
procedures used to decide on the future development and evolution of an open
source software project. These rules are usually norms or customs enforced
through peer pressure. The community might
also implement formalized mechanisms of
enforcement and oversight. Failure to follow these rules
could lead to exclusion from the community or other
forms of social punishment. In Bitcoin, these
decisions are mostly made through Bitcoin
improvement proposals. It's an informal mechanism
through which people can propose new features and improvements to
the Bitcoin protocol. Ethereum also implemented
such a system called Ethereum
Improvement Proposals. It's informal procedure
allows users to suggest or request changes to the
Ethereum protocol or code. Once a suggestion is made, developers of a blockchain system will put forth a proposal. Then the voting system determines whether the community
adopts it as a whole. For Bitcoin, miners
vote by running new software with certain
settings enabled or disabled. This indicates support
or lack thereof. The approval of lead developers
can be influential, but it's not always decisive. On the flip side, the governance of the infrastructure refers to all influencing forces outside of a technological platform. These rules operate at the
social or institutional level, not at a technical level. This is called
Off-chain Governance. These systems are more
informal and unstructured than their code based counterpart
and this makes them more complex to
oversee and control. A third-party authority
like say, the government, might be required for enforcement or oversight in
certain instances. This may impose rules to ensure public order, morality,
and interest. These rules would be remedied by the proper national legal system, should any violations occur. In governance by the
infrastructure and governance of the infrastructure
can coexist. Indeed, they must to steward
this resource effectively. They can even help regulate each other based on
their differing rules. Off-chain governance is
difficult to enforce, because if it's social component. But it's also got
a great deal of flexibility. It can quickly react unforeseen circumstances
and easily adapt to changes in environment. On-chain governance
excels at doing what it's expressly designed
to do but it's unable to cope with
unexpected situations and takes much much longer to adjust
to changing circumstances. If there's a design flaw, malicious parties could
exploit them to disrupt the system or mold it
to their own benefit. Basically, the ambiguity of off-chain governance rules lends flexibility to shrink or expand the scope of
the on chain rules. Today, lots of experts
are mainly looking at endogenous rules related to on-chain and
off-chain governance. Lots of projects and
initiatives are now trying to implement new mechanisms of governance by the infrastructure, through a particular
set of rules, that are embedded
in the blockchain. More people are identifying the need for these
blockchain networks. They're also looking to the communities around
them to define the rules. Endogenous rules play
a crucial role in governance, but stakeholders must
also account for the impact of the exogenous ones. Ultimately, it is
the combination of endogenous and exogenous rules that will dictate how
blockchain systems operate.