In this video, we'll look
at the conditions in which blockchain startups
have been able to thrive. When people think of
hotbeds of innovation, they tend to think of
Silicon Valley in California. True, it's been conducive to innovation financing and business incubation
for generations. It's the center of venture
capital and entrepreneurship. It produced tech giants
like Facebook, Apple, Netflix, and Google with their portfolios of
new business models. For all its trailblazing, this hub of technological
evolution hasn't attracted as much
blockchain development as you might expect. Blockchain is
decentralized by design. Early protocols were developed through cross-border
collaboration among pioneers in regions that are largely outside of
Silicon Valley. Hubs of blockchain
based innovation have now emerged
all over the world. Initial Coin Offerings,or ICOs, and their newer brethren Security Token Offers are replacing Silicon Valley
style venture capital. Leaders of the old have
difficulty embracing the new, and it's unclear whether a single global hub for
blockchain is even feasible. If Silicon Valley isn't
the suitable hub, then what it is? Not all watching hubs are equal, but the leading ecosystems do
share some similar traits. There are seven
elements a hub must have for blockchain based
innovation to thrive. Let's look at each. First, is environment supportive
of entrepreneurship. In Toronto, incubators
like MaRS OneEleven, and Ryerson University's
DMZ have provided a favorable climate where blockchain entrepreneurs
have flourished. Regions with incubators have an automatic advantage
over those without them. Second, is a community
of corporate leadership. Centers of blockchain
innovation usually enjoy a close ties with established
business communities. Corporate entities
manifest a culture of curiosity and
market positioning. This helps blockchain
developments to especially thrive by providing a community
of partners and customers. Third, is proximity to
educational institutions. Great computer science
schools can lead to great blockchain
innovation ecosystems. So tip your hat,
universities like MIT, the National University
of Singapore, Stanford University, and
the University of Toronto. U Cal at Berkeley may
save Silicon Valley yet, with its block chain
at Berkeley program. Fourth, is a strong
investment climate. Angel capital, venture capital, and strong financial
services industries must have a risk tolerance
with this kind of innovations. Through ICOs, entrepreneurs
have harnessed blockchain and overcome some of the traditional
financial barriers. Regulatory hurdles still
remain a challenge. The fifth element is
government support. Governments should be model users of technology plain and simple. Government community-based
initiatives can fund innovation directly. China's government
is pouring billions into certain kinds of
blockchain development, that we do know that
China's history when the subject is a
little bit mixed. Canada's supercluster
Initiative has put a billion dollars into projects that have
some blockchain component. Israel has produced more unicorns per capital than anywhere. Sixth, is a fair
regulatory environment. Governments can help or
they can impede innovation. ICOs are a new source of funding. Neither over-regulation nor
no regulation is sensible. Free for all jurisdictions
will run into big problems, but banning ICOs, banning Bitcoin, and
cryptocurrency exchanges will also harden
innovation for decades. The final element is
a diverse community of talent. Highly educated populations
promote innovation. How do you initiate
a national brain gain rather than brain drain? In November 2017,
Toronto's Mayor, John Tory, spoke to members of the
Blockchain Research Institute about making Toronto
a Global Technology Center. He wants to attract international talent pools and persuade Canadians
to return home. So far, these initiatives
have been very successful. Does anyone location
possess all of these elements? It's possible. In a decentralized network, we'll just have to
keep an eye out for those emerging hubs and do
our part to help them along. Look to your city, your town, or even your country. Perhaps, your part of the next blockchain hub,
and you don't even know it.