[MUSIC] Congratulations on
completing another module. In this video, we'll review what you've learned about
taking part in the blockchain revolution. The most exciting development
in the past two years has been the emergence of a new generation
of leaders for this revolution. They include the entrepreneurs we've
met in visits to 30 countries. They also include the innovative
CEOs of major corporations like FedEx's Fred Smith or Thomson Reuters'
Jim Smith, or Centrica's Iain Conn. Along with the leaders of large technology
companies like IBM's Ginni Rometti, Microsoft's Satya Nadella, and
Accenture's Pierre Nanternne. We've met the CFOs, CIOs,
Chief legal officers, CMOs, they were curious about the implications
for their roles, and stepped up to lead, and also the professionals and managers
from every unit of large companies. On blockchain revolution
first went to print, most banks were tactfully supporting
the potential of the blockchain. But they were dismissing Bitcoin and
crypto. The idea was, Bitcoin bad,
blockchain good and that became a cliche. As late as 2017, Jamie Dimon, CEO of JP
Morgan Chase was calling Bitcoin a fraud, although Dimon quickly changed his
mind after that famous statement. In February of 2018, Circle,
backed by Goldman Sachs, acquired Poloniex, and it's one of the
world's largest cryptocurrency exchanges. So the big players
are now getting serious. The move suggested to the world that
there are real opportunities but also risks in crypto assets. JP Morgan echoed the Bank of America
in it's annual report in 2017. It acknowledged cryptocurrencies
could pose a risk to it's business. The report said, financial
institutions and their non-banking competitors face the risk
payment processing and other services could be disrupted
by technologies such as cryptocurrency that
require no intermediation. We've been inspired by lots of central
bankers, government regulators, and policy makers. Those who met the challenge of
balancing innovation, growth, and opportunity the blockchain affords with their ongoing responsibility
to steward financial markets. Journalists, academics, and pundits
stand on all sides of this issues as to what's important and
what's the right thing to do. But once you've discarded their,
have especially it become inspirations. There's also a new generation
of crypto natives, young people who have grown up
in this new blockchain world. They've grown up with the technology and they're not only investing, they're
working to develop a career in blockchain. If you're a business leader, we hope that you'll use this blockchain
revolution, as your playbook. And it's no longer Bitcoin bad,
blockchain good, but rather we have the second
era of the Internet emerging. And it's based on blockchain
technology and this is enabling the digitization of all kinds of assets,
that includes currencies, but currencies are just one of many,
there are others as we have discussed. Securities, natural asset, tokens, utility tokens, even crypto collectibles. What's important to remember is that the
rules of the game themselves are changing. Find out who at your company is
interested in this technology or is already using say a crypto currency. Talk to your chief
officers in IT department about the technologies implications. Exchange a few currency for
some Bitcoin, try it out, personal use is a precondition for
comprehension. Try using to make a purchase and
see how it works. Hundreds of thousands of merchants
accept bitcoin, for example. Identify nearby blockchain startups, take a field trip to see their operations,
talk with their founders, invite an expert to come and speak to
your team, most important, act now! Leadership, is your personal opportunity. This is your chance to reimagine,
how you create value, and if you don't of
course someone else will.