Hi everybody. Welcome back. In this video, we're trying to understand these three controls even further with some examples. Then first of all, we would like to know how to identify the internal controls. if you're given a control, how to identify which one it is. There are three steps. The step one is whether that is a preventative, detective or corrective. The step two is going to be looking at what kind of risks that this control addresses, The last one is basically where the different controls can be applied. These are the three steps that we are looking at. Now, we are going to look at the first example, which is encryption of software. it's your judgment now. It's time for you guys to pause the video and think, Encryption of software, what kind of controls is that? Is it preventative, detective or corrective? Now, I want to tell you something here. When you're thinking about which control it is, you should ask questions. If you say it's a preventative control, you should ask yourself, what are we preventing and how are we preventing? If we decided as detective, then you should ask the questions, what are we detecting and how are we detecting? Of course you should ask similar questions for corrective control. Encryption of software, what kind of control is it? What dos exactly encryption of software mean? Encryption means that we do coding and then decoding. That means before we send the data or before we keep the data somewhere, what we do is, we do code it. We receive data from someone else and before we use it, we do decoding. For example, I always share a classical example with my students saying that I will send a message to my girlfriend, but my wife is around. In this case, if my wife sees the message I'm sending to my girlfriend, I would be in big trouble, as you all know, right? The message I'm going to send to my girlfriend is "I miss you". So this message if I send it as it is, definitely I'll be in trouble from my wife. What I'm going to do is, before I send it, I code it. "I" means "1", "a" means "2", and so on and so forth. What I'm sending is basically bunch of numbers encoded. When it goes to my girlfriend, she can decode it but if it's getting hold to my wife, she doesn't know how to decode it. She will definitely not be able to find out what it is. That's what we call encryption of software. So what kind of control is it? It's a preventative control. Now the question that I'm asking from you guys is, as I mentioned to you before, what are we preventing and how are you preventing, right? You should be able to answer these questions. Sometimes students say that this is a preventative control against data loss, but it's not really the correct answer. The correct answer is, a preventative control not to reveal the information, because if the data is lost, we can have a control, like SQL, we lock and key, or maybe that we are having the authentication not allowing someone else to access the data and steal the data. But in this case my wife will see the message. I don't have any measures that my wife will not get hold to the message. She might see the message but she doesn't know what exactly it is. So it's a preventative control. Whenever that you have a situation which control it is, you should ask the questions that I asked you guys. That's very important. Now let's look at our next example. Our next example is job rotation. What kind of control is it? Before we think about what kind of control is it, you should think about why organizations, why the management organize this job rotation to their employees? Is it because they have nothing else to do? Is it because of letting them enjoy moving around? That's not the case. Because the main reason is that, for employees to go into different units, different departments to understand the big picture for entire organization. That's the main reason. By doing so, that one particular employee will be able to be familiar with most of the parts of the business process. That is a preventative control. What are they preventing? They have the knowledge of the entire organization. If one employee who's doing one function leaves, there are other employees who may have applied to the same position before, so that they will be able to catch it up. That's one way. At the same time, I would say that job rotation is primarily a preventative control. In addition to that, when I'm away, somebody else come and sit in my desk, they would observe or know what I've been doing. If any case I was doing something bad, they would be able to find it out. That's a classical example that I would like to share with you guys. Something happened about five to six years ago, a bank in France called Societe Generale. That's a good case for us to learn. In that bank, one of the employees did a lot of bad things within the organization, misused a lot of funds. How does it happen? Because of three reasons. He joined as a programmer, and then he had access to the codes. By accessing the codes, he could manipulate the codes, then he was promoted to different units, but still the bank could not stop his logical access. That means he could still use his username and password to access to the codes. At the same time, he didn't take leave. Nobody else could sit in his desk and try to observe what he was doing. Now it's a situation where we have seen that job rotation is definitely indeed has secondary element of controls: detective. After this incident happened, now we have new regulation. We call it block leave. In a lot of countries now, there are regulators do have regulation for the financial industries. Employers should take block leaves for at least two or one weeks, whether they want it or not. During that period of time, somebody is going to sit in front of their desk and then will see what they had been doing, If there is something bad happening continuously, they would be able to find it out. That's job rotation. Now let's look at one more example which is system backup and restoration. That's something that I'm sure that all of you guys are familiar with, backup and restoration. We back up the data and keep it somewhere, and then whenever we need it, we do the restoration. So what kind of control is this? This is a classical example of corrective control. Corrective control means if any case that our data is being corrupted, we can do the restoration. This is a classical example of corrective control. It has sometimes a preventative nature, again data loss possibly. But primarily it's corrective control. Now let's keep on with our discussion of examples. Next one is called password. What kind of control is the password? I think you can easily guess. That is a preventative control, prevent unauthorized access. When we access to certain systems, we do have a preventative control to prevent unauthorized access. That's easy. Now we're moving to another one which is called log of users. The first question that you should ask yourself is this, Whenever we have this control, we have a username and a password, Why do we need both? Why don't we just simply have only the password? That's a question you should ask, why not password only? Log of users is to find out who logged in a given period of time, who made the change to the system. So that is detective control. That's for the accountability. When we do the record, in some systems, we might have logs. Scometimes we call it audit trails. In logs, in audit trails, we keep information about who accessed system, what kind of changes has been made to system, and if there's any supervisors who have done the approval. And for example, if you want to keep track of the information, What was the information before? What is the information currently? You might have a before image, you might have after image. Of course we should have timestamp, which means the date and time, as well as whatever the information that you would like to keep record. This is a log of users. It's a classical example of detective controls Then we have security awareness training. What kind of training is security awareness training? What does security awareness training mean? When you go to your work in the first day,  you will be given a training for about maybe one week, or 3 to 4 days depending on how big your organization is. Security awareness training basically would let you know what to do, what not to do. So in that case, it's a preventative control because most of the issues happen to organization because of human errors, human mistakes. In security awareness program, they would give you an understanding of what kind of things you should know, and how to avoid the human mistakes. We continue our discussion, CCTVs. I think you can judge very easily, CCTV is a detective control. When we have exams for my students, I tell them that, Okay, you do exam, but there's a CCTV camera to monitor. I'll go to my office and you guys do exams in the classroom, but I am going to monitor. It's a detective control. They know that I'm monitoring, primarily it's detective, but secondarily it has the preventative nature as well. They don't want to cheat because they know that I'm watching. Then final one that we have is called data entry controls. When we input data to a system directly, sometimes system gives error messages For example, you have to input your ID, and you forget to input the ID, so systems give error message when you try to submit it. This is a preventative control, prevent entering the wrong information to the systems or prevent you from inputting the information that's not supposed to input. It's an example of a preventative control. All right guys. That's all about the video today. Hope to see you guys again soon.