Welcome guys, welcome back. The last step of risk management is called risk re-evaluation. Risk re-evaluation means, we go back to risk assessment and risk mitigation, we go back to do the step number one and then do the step number two again. When are we doing risk re-evaluation? That's a question that I should ask you guys. There are two different scenarios that we do risk re-evaluation, we call time driven and event driven. Time driven means we do periodically, that means once every six months time, we do the risk assessment and risk mitigation, or once in every year. That's called time driven. There's no external factor whatsoever, we just do it. The second one we call event driven. Event driven means, when there is environment change, let me give you guys some examples of environment change. You guys do traditional banking. Now, if you do go for e-banking, that's environment change within the organization. Our total risk structure is going to be different totally. it's time for us to do the risk assessment again because they have a new risk. We have to come up with control to reduce risk for the e-banking. That's something happened to organization. Or else, there's a new government regulation, you or your organization comply with that, that's an environment change to your organization. Or we when a natural disaster happens, that's going to be an environment change. I ask a question from you guys. Is it environment change happened to your organization the only reason we do risk assessment again or do the risk re-evaluation again? Right, if something happened to similar organization, we must still go and do the risk assessment and risk mitigation, that means risk re-evaluation for example. Can you guys remember about 7-8 years ago, there was an earthquake happened in Japan? As a result of that, there was a nuclear plant melt down. That means a big risk to the nuclear plants. As soon as that the incident happened, all the nuclear plants in the world, they go back and did their risk assessment and risk mitigation, to see if similar things happened to their organizations, how can they handle it? Will there be disaster to their organizations? That's something that they did, that means risk re-evaluation. In other words, environment change does not necessarily mean something were changed to your organization, it could be something happened to similar organization and then we look back ourselves and see, are we ready for that? Finally, we look at summary. We do the risk assessment, risk mitigation, and then risk re-evaluation. Risk re-evaluation means, go back to step number one, risk assessment and risk mitigation. Good to have you guys.