Business leaders, and
those who study them, have shaped the practice
of management over the last 200 years of capitalism. The main theories and
behaviors of managers, have worked well in
building corporations, all pretty much hierarchical with power and wealth
concentrated at the top. Blockchain pioneers
like Joe Lubin of ConsenSys are putting
those theories and practices to the test. In earlier modules,
we looked at how Blockchain will disrupt
the nature of the enterprise, not just how they'll raise
funds or access credit, but how they'll create value, how they'll manage talent, and how they'll handle
other resources. Algorithms could
replace management altogether in many use cases. We looked at how
Blockchain is changing the anatomy and physiology
of the enterprise. In this module, we'll look at changes to executive functions. Starting with the top,
the head office, the big cheese, the
chief executive officer. Dr. Irving Wladawsky-Berger, is a visiting lecture at
MIT Sloan School of Management. He said "Navigating the balance between the hype and the promise of Blockchain is
a key responsibility of a company's
senior management team." So, what should the
C-suite prepare for? Wladawsky-Berger said
"Executives must decide whether they're companies
should adopt blockchain early and start
experimenting now, or wait until the technology matures and risk lagging behind more aggressive
competitors." This module is
designed to help you understand how
senior management can balance the hype and
the hope and make key decisions about Blockchain
for their enterprise. Will walk you through
operations, legal, finance and accounting,
sales and marketing, IT, and human resources. You're welcome to explore as many of these roles
as you'd like. However, for
your graded assessments, only your top three scores will count towards
your final grade. If you've got
questions or comments, please post them to
the discussion forum. For preview of this topic, see the new preface to the paperback edition of
Blockchain Revolution.