In this video, we'll
explain how chief executive officers can lead the blockchain revolution
in their company. Here's a pro tip: The tone
starts at the top. If a CEO embraces blockchain and so will the company
and its customers. CEOs set the corporate
culture through their own behavior whether
they intend to or not. Business strategy isn't just about proving your company
gets the blockchain, it's about associating
your brand with the future. An effective CEOs will
find the best forms of communication and
use simple terms. This means tallying
and retallying your blockchain storage across a variety of
communication channels, not just staff meetings, but press interviews, industry conferences,
analysts calls, corporate blogs, and lots
of client engagements, maybe write a
position paper on it. For ideas, take a look at
Scott Nelson's white papers. He's the CEO and
Founder of Sweetbridge. Now that's a blockchain startup, but still this is an example of leadership coming through
thought leadership. Well, blockchain have a profound long-term impact
like the Internet on companies, industries,
and economies. Well, we think so, but it's too early to
tell how big the impact will be and how
long it will take. One thing for sure is that just as with
the early Internet, the graveyard of corporations
will be strewn with the bodies of those who didn't understand that
a new paradigm was emerging. Is your CEO going to be
like one of the leaders of the early Internet period that transformed
a number of companies, or more like the
leaders of say Kodak, or Barnes & Noble, or Nortel, or Series. There's a division that's
taking place here, and it all comes
down to leadership. The key responsibility of a company's senior
management team is also balancing the hype and the promise of
this technology. Nothing is ever really
black and white, and revolutionary change
comes with challenges. We often forget,
change is difficult, even painful for some people. Without thoughtful
messaging, lots of well-intentioned
leaders can fall into the wild west mentality. CEOs need to be careful about sending unproductive
messages like the rules don't apply to us or it's all about the number
of token holders, not revenues, or
this kind of crazy stuff. Codes of conduct in a civil
societies still apply too, even if your company
undergoes structural change. Now, there are
three ways that a CEO can lead team and
set the proper tone. First is acknowledging
market readiness and good financial results. Cash flow, profits still matter. But considered a win in a lab doesn't always translate
into market success. Of course, markets
and customers matter. Famous management theorists
and scientists, Peter Drucker, once
said that the purpose of a business is to create
a customer and he's right. But it's not just
about customers. CEOs are also asking employees to move into
unknown territory. They don't know what will
happen to their jobs or what skills they may need
in this new environment. But that said, your company needs to get on the learning curve. That means watching
blockchain pilots closely, taking part in proof-of-concepts,
designing your own. A second strategy is effective marketing
and communications. We talked about marketing to external audiences, customers,
investors, educators, the press, but blockchain leaders also need to communicate
to internal audiences. Employees may believe what
they read in newspapers, magazine, articles, rather
independent sources. Some more so than what
communicated internally. There's a lot of how shall we put this inaccurate
information out there. Remember, employees are
entering unknown territory. They don't understand
new initiatives, and they may struggle
to support them. So managers need to pay great attention
to internal messages, training, and also to incentives because people do what
they're compensated to do. They must line for people to get the overall strategy,
their own role, and the role of their unit
and helping it succeed, and that's critical
from the get-go. Finally, we need to avoid setting
unrealistic expectations. As the saying goes, there's a fine line between
vision and hallucination. Most blockchain
initiatives are in the Alpha or Beta stage. It's too early to make really broad assumptions
about their effects. Sure talk about the potential, but let's not assume
certain things. CEOs need to learn from their
own pilots and memberships, and consortia or in organizations like the
Blockchain Research Institute. CEOs need to track
how the technology is unfolding and how their business
will be affected. This future evolves so quickly. Incumbents of the old paradigm don't always see it coming. Leaders of the older often
the last to embrace the new. Vested interest fight
against change. That's why communication and vigilance are crucial for
leaders in the days ahead.