In this video, we'll
look at the role of the Chief Operating
Officer or COO, and how COOs will oversee
the supply chain revolution. Blockchain technology
is poised to transform the economy and
how we exchange value. It could alter the global flow
of assets of all kinds, both tangible and intangible. Global supply chains manage
most of our global trade. There's an estimated value of $50 trillion that
goes through them. Blockchain offers us a record
volume of data that could help us study large-scale
economic systems like never before. Why? Because every asset
has a supply chain. Global supply chains are ripe for disruptions at every level, and in every role. Blockchain startups
like Sweetbridge, and pharmaceutical
giants like Merck, are preparing their stakeholders for a decentralized future. COOs get perhaps the best
glimpse of this transformation. They oversee the movement of all these assets that go
through their company. They could help reinvent
global commerce as we know it. So how are organizations, big and small,
applying blockchain? Let's take a look at six
industries and their approaches. The first is manufacturing. Foxconn Technology
Group is one of the largest technology
manufacturers in the world, and is part of one
of the biggest and most complicated supply chains. It's testing advanced
cryptographic techniques, and decentralized networks. Foxconn's goal is to solve
its integration problems, and transform its operations. It's using blockchain as
a trustable platform, for building relationships
among partners, suppliers, and customers, who may not otherwise
trust each other. The second industry is mining, and here we're going to focus
specifically on diamonds. Diamonds may be created
under pressure, but for industry leaders
and consumers, the less stress, the better. The blockchain
startup, Everledger, is taking on supply chain
problems like fraud, and property rights, and provenance in
the diamond industry. Buyers will be confident, that the stones they
purchased are legitimate. Stolen diamonds can be traced back to
the rightful owners. The third industry,
is agriculture. Blockchain can reduce
health hazards, and screen out bad actors
in the global food chain. It helps track the quality
of crops and soil, and it also helps reduce waste
and increase local yields. It can even match excess yields with those in need of food. The fourth industry is retail. Walmart, is one of the largest companies in the United States, and the largest grocer
in North America. It worked with IBM to pilot a blockchain solution
for food safety. The results were positive. It increased efficiency, it
reduced impact on cargo, and checked the conditions of transport and storage
of foodstuffs. The fifth area, is
border control and customs. COOs face issues like lengthy delays at ports
and border crossings, delays due to, piles of paperwork and changing rules
and regulations. Blockchain technology can
help track money, goods, and people as they
pass through customs, verify their identity,
and automate paperwork. Imagine the cost,
and time savings. The final industry, is aerospace. Moog, is a global designer, manufacturer, and integrator
of motion control systems. It's clients could face catastrophe if its supply
chain falls apart. Moog deployed blockchain
to secure the transfer and use of 3D printing design files, so they couldn't be tampered
with and would print exactly the number of parts
paid for in remote locations. The global supply chain, will be more adaptable
and responsive to demand, and crisis if it runs
on the blockchain. COOs are grappling with a number of
emerging technologies, not just blockchain and
distributed ledgers, but artificial intelligence,
machine learning, and the Internet of Things. Combined, these may
automate more of operations, procurement
and purchasing, transportation and
logistics as well as trade, finance, and even insurance. There are ideas and opportunities
here, for every COO. Discuss them with
your C-Suite peers, your customers, and
your suppliers. Decide how best to take part in the blockchain
revolution.