In this video, we'll
look at the role of the Chief Legal Officer
in a world of smart contracts
where code is law. Economist Ronald Coase and
his successors argued that a corporation was a vehicle for creating long-term contracts, when short-term contracts were too much effort to
negotiate and enforce. Blockchain aids
the contracting process whether short or long term. Smart contracts can
automate terms. They can refer to data fields
elsewhere online, known as Oracles, such as a party's account balance or a change in a commodity price. They can trigger alerts
and automate payments. Smart contracts
are self-enforcing and so corporations will not
want to enter them lightly. Chief Counsel and
corporate lawyers will need to learn how to audit legal templates and make sure the contract software supports what it's parties
intended it to do. The watch phrase is don't roll your own crypto.
What does that mean? Well, basically, it
means don't create some new cryptographic
means of securing your smart contracts
without at least publishing it for peer review
and outside testing. That's apparently what Iota did. Iota is a block chain protocol, developed on
the concept of a tangle also known as
a Directed Acyclic Graph. It was developed to turbo
charge the Internet of Things. Iota's team named
its hash function Curl. Iota kept its new Curl
hash function to itself. Experts found security problems
with Curl and they also found that Iota's response to their fighting's worries them. Iota went ahead with its launch. The two lessons here a simple for lawyers developing
smart contracts. One, stick with
well-tested methods for creating and running
Smart contracts, keep it simple. And two, make sure you have someone on staff who
can audit the code of a smart contract template
or the code of a distributed app behind
an ICO or other crypto asset. Lawyers also need to stay on top of cases involving
block chain. Those include smart contracts, initial coin offerings, and patent filings and
across jurisdictions. Keeping up will be
a challenge for lawyers practicing in heavily regulated
areas like health care, financial markets,
and pharmaceuticals. General counsels want to understand the patent
strategies in the space. Tom Isaacson is a lawyer and shareholder of
Pulse Donnelly. He summed up what
blockchain innovators are doing. They're filing patent
applications to do three things. One, to profit from
their invention. Two, to prevent others from
using their invention and three to make
an invention available to collaborators
through patent pools or through open source. Isaacson said the bar is
high for receiving a grant. He said a blockchain
patent application must meet three criteria. One, it must be eligible and
that's not always clear. Two, it must be truly novel. The courts don't favorite patents codifying existing
business practices in software and three the design
must be non-obvious. The question of obviousness
is rich and deep, he says. The more narrow and
focus the claims the better the chances of
getting claims allowed. To borrow a quote from Spiderman, "With great power comes
great responsibility." Blockchain technology
gives lawyers lots of benefits but there are risks
that could be significant. Chief counsel and
their legal teams must be on top of the cases and on top
of pending regulations.