[MUSIC] In this video,
we'll explore corporate accounting and finance through the eyes of
the Chief Financial Officer, or CFO. In Blockchain Revolution, Don Tapscott and
I looked closely at how blockchain would affect what we call the world's second
oldest profession, financial services. We saw the unstoppable force of blockchain
on a collision course of what seemed like an immovable object,
the financial services industry, and we expected fireworks. Financial services grease
the wheels of the global economy. The industry moves trillions of dollars
a day and serves billions of people. Their leaders have even been
dubbed masters of the universe, albeit with tongue firmly in cheek. CFOs balance the internal markets of
corporations with the external markets of finance. They must understand
the profound changes in store. The financial services industry
needs a major upgrade. Sleek user interfaces act as digital
wallpaper for old technologies, processes, and systems. We've looked at the basic eight
functions the industry provides, in no particular order. The industry forces anti money laundering
and know-your-customer regulations. It verifies identity and account balances,
it facilitates payments, savings, loans, asset exchanges, investment, insurance,
risk management, and accounting. Blockchain, it turns out,
is transforming all of these. So let's start with accounting. For centuries, we've used a system
of double book keeping, where for every transaction you record a debit and
a credit, and in the end, the books must balance,
which is why we call it a balance sheet. Blockchain is now giving rise to
an alternative, triple-entry book keeping. You may remember we discussed
the idea of triple-entry accounting. The idea was circulated first
by cryptographer, Ian Grigg, before the release of
the Bitcoin blockchain. Grigg argued, a cryptographically
sealed record of transactions was the same as a third-entry
extending double-entry systems. The idea translated into a shared
receipt on the blockchain. Others have said a digitally signed and
shared receipt isn't really a departure from double-entry bookkeeping, but
the concept, I think, is still useful. It underscores our ability to write
transactions to a blockchain in real time and between multiple parties. It results in a ledger showing
the whole history of assets and the relationship among transactions. That's more than a credible audit trail. That's real time status of all
transactions relevant to us. Accounting is but one of dozens of central
building blocks at the CFO's disposal. Innovation needs to come from
all areas of the enterprise, and this includes the CFO's office. And today's CFO is not the stereotypical
green-shaded bean counter of the movies. The CFO is one of the main
leaders inside the enterprise, and the finance role involves
everything from cash flow and risk management to capital investing,
corporate recruiting, and strategy. We've already discussed how policies and
regulations attempt to balance the need for innovation
with the need to protect stakeholders. The CFO can help explain how
an organization could deploy blockchain in a novel but principled way.