Welcome back. In this video, we'll look at
the role of the Chief Marketing Officer or CMO, and the new ways to engage
customers through blockchain. Marketing was the first
corporate function to be really transformed by
digital technologies. Every CMO knows the
Four P's of Marketing; product, placement,
price, and promotion. The Four P's were useful tools
when producers could push their messages through
the broadcast model of media, but that paradigm
has now shifted. Consumers can share their views with each other through blogs, social media, and
consumer reviews. Marketers can engage customers in all aspects of
marketing and branding, from design and packaging to advertising sales and delivery. Now, everything is about to drastically change again
through blockchain. But this time, we
should be prepared. Blockchain's biggest
opportunities require a shift in marketing strategy. Profiling customers online
by tracking their behavior, capturing all their data might soon be
a thing of the past. Consumers in the future
will own and control their own data through
virtual black boxes set up on blockchains. Marketing and sales staff, will need to learn how to
query these black boxes. Some consumers may allow
access to their data in exchange for freebies
or some other goodies. Others may charge companies
a fee to license their data. The quality of results should increase whatever the incentive. Companies will find their target audiences
with greater precision. Smart contracts can
improve the performance of search engine optimization
and price negotiation. Advertisers will know
exactly which elements of their ad budgets
delivered results, and when it comes to get
customers attention. We're headed towards
a pay-for-attention model with blockchain based
identity systems. Jeremy Epstein, is CEO of Never Stop Marketing and an expert on blockchain
and marketing. He introduced us
to Brave Software and explained its approach. Brave launched the Basic
Attention Token or BAT, and a free web browser
blocking ads and cookies. Braves token mechanism
let's advertisers pay end users directly for
their attention to ads. No more will 73 percent of all your ad dollars go
to Facebook and Google. Retailers and manufacturers
could also cut the cost of collecting and
protecting consumer data. How do blockchain technologies shape the CMO's of the future? Jeremy Epstein pointed
out six possibilities; First, a CMO will be asked to demonstrate return on
marketing investment. That means increasing the number
of revenue generating prospects and improving the
value of marketing spent. CMO's can start by cutting out middleman like
Facebook and Google. Second, disrupting
advertising will yield new insights
and challenges. The good news is
that CMO's will know the effects of their ads in
their marketing efforts. Bad news is that consumer attention will
come with a price tag. The digital marketing team
should learn how to work with blockchain protocols like
the pirates or Meta-x. Third, smart contracts
will clearly show what CMO's are doing to up the return on
every marketing dollar. CMO's will need to understand
pay-for-performance, pay-for-attention, and metering
or paper usage models. They'll also need to learn
about distributed apps for pricing and creating
new revenue streams. Fourth, more innovative and easier-to-understand loyalty
programs will emerge. The future loyalty program will give customers flexibility. Marketers will measure and manage customer engagement
on blockchains. No more focus on
likes or retweets. Measures like net promoter score
will reign supreme, and this will allow
marketers to assess the emotional commitment that customers have for their brand, and loyalty points will
become more valuable, tradable assets that
you can redeem for money or goods and services
on other platforms. Fifth, the marketing organization will flatten from
a hierarchy to a network. It'll have the better
ability to assess an individual's impact
across the ecosystem. Who's creating value? Who's improving brand and
reputation and experiences? Who's bringing in more
community members? CMO's we'll be able to find and reward these high-value
participants. Sixth, brands will no
longer make claims, at least not claims
they can't support. They'll be able to
provide proofs. CMO's will need their
brand managers to deliver verifiable trust through
blockchain based proofs, transparent for all to see. Brands will also require
four components; One, an inspiring mission. It must be community first, concrete and as bold as a man on the moon by
the end of this decade. Two, is evidence of how the brand makes the world a
different and better place. Three, is a plan
to engage people, to meet their emotional,
psychological, and financial needs. Four, is a great user experience including real utility
and customer privacy. Overall, blockchain
enables companies to cut intermediary fees
and institutional bias. CMO's can finally go straight to the customer and gain
actionable insights at scale. That experience will allow for better marketing and also a better experience
for customers.