[MUSIC] Welcome back. In this video, we'll look at the impact of blockchain technology
on the job of the Chief Information Officer and the Chief Technology Officer, the CIO and CTO respectively. The job is a tough one. It involves securing
the enterprise against cyberattacks
and systems failure, while transforming
IT architecture for the Fourth
Industrial Revolution. Quite a task. The fourth
Industrial Revolution is here. We're in it. It involves artificial
intelligence, machine learning, advanced
robotics, smart buildings, autonomous fleets, the
Internet of things, additive manufacturing, energy microgrids, and
even biotechnology. We see blockchain as a coordinating mechanism for all of these emerging
technologies. It will support reliable search, verification of
device IDs and accounts, execution of distributed apps
and smart contracts, micropayment systems, and
exchanges of tokenized assets. CIOs and CTOs will have to go beyond implementing
enterprise business strategy. They'll need to do so, using or recommending a range
of technologies. So, there are
four key ways to do this. First, CIOs and CTOs must effectively communicate their
bold visions of the future. Their peers in the C-suite
will need help understanding these
evolving technologies, and their impact on
enterprise strategy. CIOs and CTOs can move them to action with
compelling examples, relevant use cases, and
proposals for exciting projects. Second, they will need to orchestrate innovation
across the enterprise. Blockchain technology will affect external processes and
enterprise architecture. Moving business
logic and business processes out of
enterprise silos and on to shared blockchains will help to coordinate internal initiatives
with industry efforts, such as the Hyperledger project, or the Enterprise
Ethereum Alliance. Third, they must cultivate
the necessary skills, talent, and relationships
in house or in the network. There's already a shortage of accomplished blockchain
developers who understand smart contracts
in blockchain integration. Attending blockchain meetups
and participating in consortia can help to build
these key connections. Fourth, CIOs and CTOs should keep an eye on
quantum computing. Google has already built
a 72-qubit processor. Qubits are quantum bits, rather than conventional ones. Quantum processors can solve extremely difficult math
problems really fast, and this can potentially shatter public-key cryptography and weekend symmetric
key cryptography. It can undermine
the cyber security now protecting your enterprise
infrastructure and systems. Some block chains are
technically quantum resistant, but it would be
foolish to assume that any system is
completely unhackable. Users don't always protect
their private keys. Developers make trade-offs
between security and scalability at
the implementation layer. CIOs and CTOs should
audit their systems. Which data are vulnerable
because of encryption? What is the threat level
and the timing? It makes no sense to deploy a blockchain that's
not quantum resistant, if not quantum proof, for managing your
most valuable assets. Now, experts say there's
a one in seven chance a quantum computer will be commercially available by 2026, and that's less
than a decade away. By 2031, the odds
become one in two. CIOs and CTOs who take
these actions will be preparing their
enterprise architecture for the fourth industrial age. For more detail about the CIO and Enterprise
Technology Architecture, check out the new preface to the paperback edition of
Blockchain Revolution, as well as the work of
Blockchain Research Institute author, Oliver Bussmann.