In this video, we'll describe how the Chief Human Resources
Officer or CHRO, can manage talent in
a distributed economy. The CHRO has great potential to be a pioneer with Blockchain. Human resources or HR, is a strategic asset rather than a cost center when
treated properly. It's leaders must be open to
and willing to experiment with new technologies such as Blockchain for managing talent. Signing up experts in this field is a valuable
long-term investment. The growing challenge
lies in working outside of traditional
organizational boundaries. The trend now is
moving more towards temporary workers and
independent contractors. Organizations, especially the
HR professionals in them, must think more in terms
of tasks needing to be done rather than positions
that needed to be filled. Among HR's most immediate
concerns is diversity. Like many technology-driven
businesses, the Blockchain revolution
is overpopulated with men. The lots of the
best tactical minds in the industry
are in fact women. Women hold only 25 percent of all computing jobs
more generally. People of color are
also unrepresented by 16 to 18 percent
based on estimates. This is an unhealthy
disparity that CHROs have the power to remedy. Now, our friend Pindar Wong
likes to cite cybernetics first principle Ashby's law
of Requisite Variety. He says that we need a variety of viewpoints, be they male, female, gay, straight,
old, young, whatever. Not enough diversity can lead to problem-solving deadlock. An innovation relies on a wide variety of
views to conceive of every possible error to
test it and to solve it. A wide variety of views give every issue to be
solved equal treatment. Assembling and
dispersing a diversity of talent can be
far more effective and profitable than the traditional hiring
and retaining model. HR professionals can learn how to leverage Blockchain in for ways, finding the right people,
negotiating their contracts, implementing the terms, and coordinating
their contributions. The Blockchain transformation of the HR function is expected
to occur in three waves. The first wave, will resolve fundamental issues
with recruitment. HR professionals
will use Blockchain to query candidate's
black boxes of data, confirm their identity, and
verify their credentials. HR will no longer
have to worry about puffed up distorted or
inaccurate resumes. Candidates will be
held accountable for their experience and skills. Payment can also occur
at nearly real-time for output or time worked for
staff or for contract workers. The second wave will provide benefits in the broader
talent ecosystem. It will also reduce the number of full-time
employment contracts. Smart contracts
will be key here in measuring the strategic
importance of tasks, and deciding whether
they can be outsource. This brings us to the third wave. The technology allows for the sourcing and execution
of work projects. CHROs will restructure
contractual relationships. They'll bring in workers and services separately as needed. Andy Spence, is the founder
of Glass Bead Consulting, an HR advisory firm. He suggests CHROs look for talent with portfolio careers and
verified career profiles. Look for people earning
digital credentials, also known as Open Badges. These are the resilient ones,
the lifelong learners. They will see the arc of
potential in Blockchain, smart contracts,
artificial intelligence, robotics, and
the Internet of things. HR professionals will
need to reimagine their function and transform
with the technology. Some jobs maybe eliminated. Some HR processes
may be automated, and others will be
managed by algorithms. Activities like payroll, corporate learning,
training and development, recruiting, performance
reviews, and benefits may be outsourced
or cut out altogether. New jobs though will
also be created, and these will require
innovation to fill. CHROs should focus on finding platforms for
self-organizing teams. These would need to quantify and predict team performance. CHROs also need to safeguard talents systems so they remain effective, fair, and inclusive.