[MUSIC] So what is decentralization? Decentralization in my
opinion is a phenomenon or a paradigm shift that planet
earth is waking up to. Right now, the database and
Internet structures that we, as species, have created thus far, have typically been driven by
Internet service providers. Basically, the history of the Internet and the history of the database grew
up distinct from each other. And when the first
intranets were created and evolved into what we now were
the America Online's of the world, basically we would log in to those
intranets to access databases. And those types of intermediaries were
the ones that would house our information. Fast forward to the last decade. The world on the Internet
has essentially become an oligopoly of a handful
of Internet service providers that access and serve as
a thin line of intermediation to us. You can take Facebook, Twitter,
retail banking accounts. And basically, we pay those
intermediaries tremendous sums of money, or in many cases, we are the product,
where we have quote, unquote, free access, but
then our data is shared and monetized. And now we're going to a place
where rather than having a centralized intermediary custody,
our digital assets and our digital personas,
we will have that self-sovereignty. The individual user will be in
control of their data, their assets, their reputation, and we will have
essentially peer-to-peer transactions. In so much Bitcoin was the opening act,
where I was able to send a cryptographic token peer-to-peer without
a intermediary or a bank in the middle. And now what we've got with these
next-generation blockchains are basically anything that we can dream of
in a peer-to-peer fashion. One example of this is the notion
of triple-entry accounting. So planet earth as we know operates
on double-entry accounting standards. Where if you and I were counterparties and
I sent you a dollar, there would be credit in your books for the dollar and
a debit in my books for the dollar. Going forward, there will still
be the credit and the debit, but we're going to have this
third immutable ledger entry. Hence, triple-entry accounting. And basically, that third immutable ledger
entry will serve as a watermarking, a notarization, an agreement that
I indeed gave you the dollar. And while that seems somewhat trivial, what we just did was
essentially automate audit. Because right now, we pay auditors
billions of dollars, the Deloitte's, PwC's, KPMG's, the Ernst & Young's of
the world to reconcile that transaction. And with this next generation
database technology, we are going to be able to
automate that function. [MUSIC]