Before we can understand distributed ledgers, let's first go over what exactly a ledger is. Back in the 1500s, a ledger was a large volume or service book, regularly located in one place and openly accessible. This idea evolved over time into the ledgers that we're more familiar with now as a principle Book of Accounts for a business entity. In modern usage, ledger accounting is common practice with credits and debits recorded on a businesses ledger. Something to note here is that every business has their own ledger, their own book of transactions. If you want to confirm that a transaction took place, you'd have to look at the books of two businesses, a credit to one and a debit to the other. That's why it's referred to as double entry ledger accounting. These ledgers aren't generally organized the same way, recording transactions in a grid like in a spreadsheet. This is basically speaking how modern databases work. Entries are added digitally, but in comparison to a paper ledger, a digital ledger is much more powerful and flexible. But again we have the digitization gambit. Digital ledgers and databases can be edited, copied and transferred with unprecedented ease from anywhere in the world. Enter the distributed ledger. To combat the weaknesses of having one ledger to rule them all, what if we kept copies of the ledger distributed on a network? So that there was no one authoritative copy and had specific rules around changing them. This would make the system much more robust and has the added effect of decentralizing the authority. Now, you might be saying that's all fine and good, but how do you actually make those ledgers work together? How do you keep their information and alignment? That's when we introduce another key concept in blockchain technology, consensus. In order to keep the distributed ledgers in alignment, protocols must be established for the network to reach consensus on what exactly gets written to those ledgers and if one such ledger it gets changed, these networks should be able to notice the discrepancy and self-correct. Practically speaking, modern networks do this with a combination of consensus formation via things like proof of work as well as peer to peer protocols and cryptography and we'll visit those topics in detail in upcoming modules. Digital ledgers have come a long way with modern block chains incorporating programming and logic into them, a step far beyond simple credit and debit transactions. In future modules, we'll talk more about Ethereum which is a blockchain that can actually store data and run code. Distributed ledgers and blockchains have also introduced the idea of triple entry accounting. In the presence of an established blockchain, companies can each maintain their own business ledgers, but transactions can also be recorded on the distributed blockchain. This can make the process of auditing complicated transactions much much easier, as it doesn't require coordinating the separate books from many different business entities. It should be pointed out that distributed ledgers don't have to be blockchains and that blockchains don't have to be distributed. It's just that the true power of blockchain technology comes when these two things are combined. So, now that you know what a distributed ledger, is we can look at what exactly a blockchain is.