A block chain is actually an extremely simple concept. It's just a set of linearly connected information containing blocks secured with cryptography. Now, there are a lot of details behind modern implementations, but we can look at what a simple blockchain is with a real-world analogy. Imagine a small community called little block chain. This community has a small active economy with people buying and selling goods with each other and whenever someone makes a transaction, it's reported to the village accountant, who logs the transaction on a piece of paper. At the end of the day, the accountant goes to the town square and publicly staples the page to the previous day's transactions. Let's also assume that the accountant uses a fingerprinted wax seal to cover each staple so no one can remove prior pages or tamper with them, without it being very obvious. That's it. That's a basic paper blockchain. Each piece of paper represents a block that is put in linear sequence containing transactions. Anyone can go and look at transactions in the past, even years back, back to whenever the system began and because every staple is wax sealed and fingerprinted, everyone can easily confirm that nobody has tampered with any of the pages, each of which was added publicly. By representing the consolidation of verified consensus over time, this chain would effectively be a record of historical, verifiable and incorruptible truth for the village. Of course, in a real blockchain we'd have to extend this analogy. There are actually many accountants making records of transactions and each one is competing to be the one who gets to add their record to the chain, and of course, there are also many town squares, each with its own local copy of the block chain and all communicating with one another. However, despite all the town squares, only a single winning accountant's page will be the one copied and added to each of the distributed chains and each secured with a fingerprinted seal. At its simplest, this is more or less what digital block chains do today. Nodes are the accountants trying to put transactions broadcast to the network into blocks and being the winners in a competition that lets them be the ones to add their block to the distributed chains. With this analogy in mind, let's move on to the next module, where we will dive deeper into some of the fundamental technical details that make digital block chains work.