You've seen how blocks are made and how they're added to the blockchain and got a glimpse of how nodes communicate with each other. We've learned a little bit about how nodes agree on things, the sheer amount of effort required to create a valid block by mining a hash is what is used by nodes to agree on what makes a block valid. This is what proof of work is, a valid block is itself proof of a lot of work which shows your commitment to the system. So, when we talk about trust frameworks and consensus mechanisms, we're talking about things like proof of work that allow nodes to agree. Generally speaking, the purpose of a consensus mechanism in a blockchain is to allow a group of separate nodes to distribute the right to update the system according to a specific set of rules amongst a set of participants and in a secure way. When you think about proof of work, think of it as rewarding a minor for their share of the computational power on the network. If you own say 10% of the computational power on the network because of the random nature of hashing, you can expect 10% of the mining rewards to go to you. This system does have drawbacks. For example, it uses huge amounts of energy in a large network and as such can't support very large transaction volumes, and because of that power use, transaction fees can be high and they get higher as the network grows because those fees have to effectively pay for all that power use, plus profit for the miners. But proof of work is just one consensus mechanism and there are others. A big one is proof of stake which is a possible replacement for proof of work and is on the Ethereum blockchains development roadmap. We'll have a look at what proof of stake is and examine a couple of alternative versions as well, least proof of stake and delegated proof of stake. Finally, we'll have a look at proof of importance. Proof of stake works a little differently. Blocks are not mined, they're forged and instead of rewarding minors for the proportion of computing power they have, it rewards participants called forgers based on the proportion of the currency they own. So, roughly speaking if you owned 10% of all the cryptocurrency, you could expect to forge 10% of the blocks on the network and hence take 10% of all the fees. When creating a block, a forger stakes their currency in escrow. If the block turns out to include a fraudulent transaction, they lose that stake. This incentivizes following the rules and correctly validating transactions on the network. There are numerous benefits to this system. One is that it would drive transaction costs way down because you wouldn't be paying for all the electricity going into mining. You instead pay what is effectively an interest rate on the loan of a given stake. This system since it doesn't rely on mining would be faster and more efficient. There is also a protection against attack because anyone attacking the network would also have to hold a great deal of capital in the network, which would make such an attack self-defeating. One problem with proof of stake is that individuals with small balances will likely never get the opportunity to create a block. Least proof of stake addresses this by allowing small balance holders to stake a node. The node gains access to all the funds staked to it for the purposes of determining its odds of forging a block. But control of the funds remains entirely in the hands of the staking individual, that individual then takes a proportionate share of the fees generated if their least node forge is a block. Delegated proof of stake works differently. In this case, the number of currency tokens you own represent the number of votes you have to nominate a witness, who among other witnesses is trusted to process and validate transactions in amounts relative to the number of votes they have. If a witness turns out to act fraudulently, they can quickly be voted out and replaced by other witnesses. The top witnesses get paid the most so there is competition to be a good honest witness. The delegated proof of stake model also has a group called the delegates, who are trusted parties that manage the operation of a network but don't take part in transaction validation and block production. Okay, we're almost there. Last is proof of importance. This one is much like proof of stake in that those with a greater share of currency have a greater probability to forge blocks. However, some more variables are thrown in the mix, which give each node a combined score and that score is used to determine their share of forging probability. The variables used could be anything judged to be healthy for the network. Maybe you want to favor nodes that have more recent transaction activity or perhaps you'd like to punish currency hoarding by decreasing the reward a forger gets if they possess two concentrated a share of the network's wealth. These are all options under proof of importance. That's it for consensus mechanisms. In the next lesson, we're going to have a look at different blockchain infrastructures.