Welcome back. In this video, we'll look at why we need a new social contract
for the digital economy. First, let's unpack what
a social contract is. A social contract is
the shared idea that our best interests depend
on keeping a civil society. Our best interests are morality, fair politics, and
physical safety. Thomas Hobbes came up with the social contract
theory years ago. After the brutal
English Civil War back in the 1650s, he said, "We contract with each
other for security and stability in an otherwise
dog-eat-dog world." Not long after, John Locke expanded the concept to include property in exchange for sovereign governance
and protection. He saw the social contract
as a promise of life, liberty, and private property. This language made its way
through Thomas Jefferson into the United States
Declaration of Independence. US citizens are familiar
with their right to life, liberty, and the pursuit
of happiness. Social contracts don't
uphold themselves. Our democratic
institutions came about during the shift from agrarian feudalism to
industrial capitalism. The Industrial Revolution brought great wealth to a new class, the captains of industry, even as their workers
faced brutal conditions. The gap widened and well-being between upper and lower classes. But with the rise of industrial society and capitalism
as an economic system, we saw the creation
of democracies, created as a means of
collective governance. Reforms in Britain,
United States, and other parts of
the world addressed this growing social
and economic gap. Suffrage, the right to vote was distributed to some
of the people. Reforms led to public education,
social safety nets, and labor laws on the one hand
and income taxes and anti-trust measures and security legislation
on the other. Theodore Roosevelt pushed for environmental protections
in wildlife preservation. The 1930s, the United
States revised its social contract again this time in response to crisis. After the Great Depression, 25 percent of the American
workforce was put out of work. So President Franklin
Delano Roosevelt responded with his new deal. He called for investment
to public infrastructure, he called social security
and unemployment insurance, and he called for
legislation across banking, agriculture, labor relations,
and even homeownership. It was a rebalancing of power and a new contract in society
between government, the private sector,
and civil society. The next major revisions
came after World War II. For starters, the
Servicemen's Readjustment Act provided benefits
to US war veterans. Millions of vets
took advantage of paid tuition for
college and millions more applied for
low cost mortgages and low interest loans. These opportunities boosted
the American economy and they also contributed
to social stability. Then the United Nations was formed year after Bretton Woods. This was to prevent
another World War, another campaign of genocide. The UN published its Declaration
of Human Rights, and every member state
agreed to uphold it. The allies made
a commitment to rebuild the economies of
Japan and Germany. President John F. Kennedy's, "A rising tide lifts
all boats," metaphor, captured the spirit
of those revisions. Unfortunately, those boats
ran aground in the 1980s. Combination of economic
missteps, technological change, and rules favoring the powerful
and weakened institutions widened the gap again between those in power
and those without it. Progress hasn't just
stopped, it's reversed, at least in the United States, but also in a number of
other developed countries. Today, US citizens
live shorter lives, infant and maternal
mortality rates are up, wages are down, access to education and opportunity
has declined. Median income adjusted for inflation was actually lower in 2016 than it was in 1974. Forty percent of
Americans in 2016 made less than
the 1968 minimum wage. There's a general belief
new rules had been imposed by the few
without public consent. For the first time
in modern history, we have growing economies and
a declining middle class. We have growing wealth creation
and declining prosperity. Like any deal,
a new social contract holds up if those involved do
their part to keep it. The old social contract has been broken with a new
one to replace it. We see the same trends
perhaps less extreme in other
Western democracies. We're amid a global
economic transformation as significant as
the Industrial Revolution. The industrial age
social contract came together over decades. In some sense, it took
centuries to mature. Today's digital economy
social contracts are taking shape
infinitely faster. Think of Moore's law, transistors on a circuit board doubling with every new version, growing smaller by the year
every 18 months and denser. Change in the digital age
accelerates just like that, and our regulations and
policies can't keep up. Digital technologies
contribute to the need for
a new social contract, and you can help us
write and implement it.