In this video, we'll
look at some drivers of change towards a new
social contract. There are four big ones straining our way
of doing things. One is the Fourth
Industrial Revolution, another is expanded
globalization, a third is demographic upheaval, and a fourth is worsening
climate change, and they're putting pressure on our old way of doing business. You may remember from
earlier lessons, our old social contract
were reasonably well. It was a boon to society
for periods stretching from the Industrial Revolution
until after World War II. You may also remember that we need something new and updated social contract for
today's digital economy. The founder of
the World Economic Forum, Professor Klaus Schwab, popularized this as the Fourth
Industrial Revolution. First Industrial Revolution use steam power from
mechanized production. The second use electricity
for mass production. The third use technology for automated
production: mainframes, minis, PCs, the web, the cloud, big data. But this fourth one is different and it's much more powerful
and it's very exciting. It's a fusion of technology blurring the lines
between the physical, digital, and biological worlds. The worldwide consulting firm,
McKinsey Group, used the phrase combinatorial
technology explosion to describe what's happening
as these sectors meet. This explosion
accelerates Moore's law, where circuit boards
gets smaller and denser, doubling in complexity
every 18 months or so. Think about advances in robotics combined with
artificial intelligence, nanotech, blockchain,
quantum computing, and biotech. We've barely begun to imagine the scope
of this revolution. Billions of people
and trillions of things are soon connecting, getting amazing access to data, to all this public storage of information and processing power. Technologies has done more than disrupt the social contract; it's starting to challenge what it means to
be a human being. The move from
one industrial revolution to the next is thrilling. But as the upshot, each revolution
has contributed in its own way to growing
structural, unemployment, social inequality, and all
kinds of imbalances in power, not to mention threats to our basic rights and
even our planet. Technology is at the heart of
this institutional failure, our fragmented discourse, and our loss of privacy and security. It's tough for someone
like me to admit that, but it's true and
we can do better. Globalization likewise
drives change. It's fueled by technology, international agreements,
and global institutions. It makes for easier movement
of production, goods, services, talent, capital
across national boundaries. While there are benefits
to these arrangements, globalization also
disrupted local economies and individual workers
across all sectors. It widens the inequality gap, applying pressure on local governments and
international bodies. They try to make up
the difference countering the unintended consequences of globalization on their people. Demographic upheavals is
another driver for change. The United States,
Canada, Europe, Japan, China all have aging populations. In some countries, it's a lot
worse; Italy for example. There are a lot of young people. These countries face
poverty of seniors, rising health costs, in some cases a shortage
of skilled labor. There's also a possible
generation gap and even conflict as
older people want social security
and younger people want things like education, and daycare, entrepreneurship
opportunities, and so on. The same time other parts
of Asia, Africa, and the Middle East have
very young populations and these areas are burdened with
significant unemployment. War and conflicts as well destroy economies and lead
to large numbers of economic migrants and refugees in search of
opportunity and safety. Finally, climate change
is another big driver. We're only beginning to
experience the impact of climate change on human health
and economic well-being. Climate related
refugee crises have already started along
with regional conflicts. Frequent and extreme
weather events and changing patterns
of temperature and precipitation influence
human and animal habitation, agriculture, and the
various seasons themselves. The devastating 2017 drought in East Africa put millions
at risk of starvation, and soon we can expect
over a billion people to lose their water supplier or
be flooded or otherwise forced to migrate because
of severe weather. So any discussion of the first three drivers of
change be it impact on equity, economic disruption, or
demographic upheaval, must consider the impact
of climate change. Innovation can both renew
and ruin our biosphere. It's essential we preserve our environment for
future generations. It's also essential that we keep these four drivers in mind as we rewrite our social
contract for the digital age. Any questions or comments on this topic,
we're here to help. Please check out
the discussion forum. For more detail on this topic, check out the new Afterward to the paperback edition of
our book, Blockchain Revolution.