Welcome back. In this video, we'll look at how the
private sector can help create a new social contract in one
for the digital economy. Consider our society's
four pillars; the state, private sector, civil society, and now the individual can
be a pillar of society. Let's look at why
the private sector, one of the four
pillars of society, must play a major role in drafting this new
social contract. Josh Freedman and
Michael Lind explained this in their Atlantic article, "The Past and Future of
America's Social Contract". They wrote business
leaders started to neglect their social responsibility
in the 1980s. That was a period when
shareholder capitalism took root. That model put shareholders needs over other stakeholders. Before that, companies
generally acted in the interests of
their whole communities not just investors. It wasn't a period of
pure corporate compassion. Companies favored a welfare
capitalists social contract because it gave them
leverage with labor unions. Turns out negotiations
are more difficult when employees
already get benefits. Then came the 1980s
and deregulation, more international
competition and more expensive raw materials. All incentives to shift
any downside onto workers. These developments
eroded faith in new deal era worker standards, and lead us to
the low wage social contract in place today. Unions over this period
of pretty much become decimated and play a much
smaller role in society now. So that's how
business has changed. Well, let's consider its
influence on the other pillars, and how they can restore
equity in the social contract. At the same time the
private sector was elevating investors over workers, politicians were busy weakening the state's ability to
enforce regulation. Although individuals in
civil society at large grow more and more empowered
by digital technologies, our voices were and
largely remain stifled by those with more financial power
and political influence. The private sector has
a public responsibility. The private sector is the
foundation of wealth creation, but it's also a major contributor
to wealth distribution. Though like we've seen in
previous lessons it's not an equal distance especially during this transitional period. As we see full-time
employment giving way to a part-time Gig Economy. Initials for contract for the digital age must
address the divide in wealth and opportunity in a long-term and systemic way. In the past, the
private sector has been a major participant in
functioning democracies, until that tricky period when the greater good
became less of a priority than the bottom line and personal wealth acquisition. We need to re-balance that for all stakeholders in
particular the labor. We need to emphasize
all value creation for all stakeholders both now
and in the long term. The state also has a legitimate and
important role to play. Odd as it sounds in an age
of digital Independence. Government draws its legitimacy
from the people, and ideally it acts to meet
the overall public interests. With the rule of law comes benefits like
basic infrastructure, services to support
economic fairness, not to mention safety, security, conflict
resolution, so on. All of these state
granted provisions help the development and stability of our global digital initiatives. Initiatives like
the Internet itself, and now ever expanding blockchain and the blockchain
ecosystem and economy. Without worldwide support
through technology, no such breakthroughs will be possible, let alone sustainable. On the point of sustainability, fresh interest in preserving
the environment we all share is vital across spheres. Civil society isn't an
afterthought although it lacks the official clout
and infrastructure the state and the
private sector enjoy. Public discourse,
shared experiences, and problem solving
are imperative to properly update our social
contract for all stakeholders. Both the state and the
private sector have at various times and
in various ways, worked either to strengthen or weaken civil society
and its institutions, depending on the time or
the mood of the moment. A social contract for the digital age with
provisions to respect and hear the voice of the very society granting it validity,
is essential. Finally, individuals
themselves forming the fourth pillar contribute to a new social contract in being active participants in
the other three pillars and also by themselves. They're entrepreneurs
like those who dreamed up and brought to light
the Internet and Blockchain. They're managers
with the power to influence and to be
decision-makers. They're workers aware of their reduced position and
changing role in the economy. They're taxpayers and
voters who worked to hold elected
officials accountable. They're the
representatives themselves working for change in
official capacities. They're individuals working in their communities to try
and bring about change. Well, we have the power
to contribute to the new social contract within
and beyond our networks. We don't have to be
passive recipients. We can choose to help shape
and improve the policies and contracts affecting us where
we live and work together. Private sector can
likewise step up to again be responsible and a responsible participant
in the local, national, and
international level. As our digital economy matures, each of the four pillars has an updated and
interconnected role to play. Because now these pillars
can be linked together by multi-stakeholder networks
beyond all boundaries. Blockchains are
the technology platforms for these networks. They support
consensus mechanisms, incentives for participation
and stakeholder rights.