[MUSIC] In this video we'll look at
flipping the prosperity model from one of redistributing
wealth through taxation and welfare to a new model of
pre-distributing wealth by creating the conditions under which
everyone can contribute, everyone can create value and people
are more directly linked to the economy. We'll touch two key pieces. The first is providing universal,
high speed, broadband Internet access, and the second is personal
ownership of personal information. Both concepts are now possible
through blockchain technologies. Alex Tapscott and I detailed in
blockchain revolution and elsewhere, how we can pre-distribute wealth, by changing
how it's created in the first place. That means making the process more
democratic, including more people in the economy and making sure everyone gets
fair compensation for their contributions. Traditional wealth redistribution is
a process of taxing the rich and giving it to the poor through costly bureaucracies
managing lots of social programs. There may be a role for that but
we cannot change how wealth is created and captured in the first place. And get rid of a lot of
the after the fact accounting. First step is to ensure
everyone can participate. Our chief goal is to include more
people in the digital economy. That's why we start with universal,
high-speed, broadband. The idea is not new,
lots of countries have broadband policies. But the overall execution is how
should we say inconsistent, and that would be a plight word
to describe the situation. The ideas been around long enough. Policymakers assume that the market will
take care of itself and they move on. Yet this digital divide, the term that I popularized in
a book in the 1990s continues. Gaps in high speed service and
affordability persist. Even in big cities. Rural areas and small towns where unemployment
is also high remain worse off. And the issue is about
individual access yes, like people having the ability to
develop products and services and sell them from a small town library or
from their kitchen laptops. But universal Internet access
is a lot more than that. It holds promise for industry. Why moves jobs offshore when the whole
neighborhood is wired to work for you? More people could do more jobs anywhere. High-speed broadband is available. And we can bring that job back home. We can cultivate that know how here. We can build a network of talent
ready to work and ready to compete. The second step to economic quality is to help people monetize
their own information. As we've explained, data is the new
asset class of the digital age. But most of the control over our data rests in the hands of big
businesses in the state. They use our data for their own purposes,
commercial or otherwise. But there are lots of ways to
leverage universal Internet access, hand-in-hand with blockchain and
other technologies, to regain control of our data and
reclaim the wealth associated with it. We create this asset, we can own it. And monetize it. Consider putting land titles
on a blockchain as an example. If people own real property,
then they can borrow against it, perhaps taking out a small loan to start
a small business, or go to college. Land owners could pool their resources and
start something bigger. A local tour company,
a farming cooperative. Their property could work for them and
they could be fairly compensated. This could be an important
distributed application especially in the developing world where
oversight transparency are rare. Direct peer-to-peer
transactions of things, like available rooms or underused
equipment, could be digitally tracked. Enabling communities to create a local sharing economy on a blockchain,
no middlemen required. Most important,
we can create a digital black box on the blockchain to protect
our identities and hold our data. We get to decide what data we share
with whom and for what compensation. And over all,
we can create a new age entrepreneurship where large numbers of people create and
share in the wealth.