[MUSIC] Welcome back. In this video,
we'll look at our aspirations for a new social contract,
one for the digital age. We've already talked about disruptions, undoing our post World War II
social contract. Now, we test the main assumptions
of a new social contract and the new assumptions we need to make. We'll explore some of these new
assumptions and sessions to come. We'll do all this under
three broad umbrellas. The economy, state and society. So the first assumption was we need
full-time jobs and full-time employment, to provide wealth and
benefits like healthcare. But structural unemployment and
underemployment puts lots of people at risk and
undermines confidence. It's true that unemployment rate
are currently good in many developed countries but the new wave of
technological change of the fourth industrial revolution threatens
to wipe out entire industries. In 48 US states the number one
job type for men is truck driver. That's gone soon. For women, it's cashier. Well that one's going too and next stop is
knowledge work where the combination of AI and Blockchain can eliminate many
professional and management functions or even whole professions like
radiologists and pharmacist. So we need to rethink work and our new
social contract needs to reflect that. Sure we need to consider ideas like
the universal basic income and probably a safety net to support
job mobility and security, because tying benefits to
a regular 1950s type of job, in the face of a gig based economy,
is not feasible. But better still, let's decide that
everyone should have a right to a job. We have growing wealth. If we have declining employment, that means that we should be able
to create a job for everybody. And if that job can't come
from the private sector, it should come from other sources, civil,
society, philanthropy, or even the state. The second assumption was that government
is responsible for the unemployed, the poor, the sick,
the disabled, and the elderly. Tax payer dollars fund
social welfare programs. But despite good intentions,
income and equality continues to grow. And there's a big debt that's emerging and a lot of unfunded programs
coming up in the future. Big government programs are expensive, uncoordinated and
in some cases ineffective. There are also political lightning rods, fickle in funding and support and
in short they are unreliable. We need to rethink the effectiveness
of redistributing wealth, how about an alternative? See, today the only way we think
about solving this problem is to redistribute wealth to tax the rich
more and spread the wealth around. What about something different? What about the pre-distribution of wealth, as a means of wealth fairness. We can use new technology to give
everyone a stake, everyone an account and everyone an identity in a formal and
functioning economy. People like musicians can
be fairly compensated for the wealth that they
create using blockchain. Owners of rooms or cars can receive all of the value they
create through blockchain cooperatives. We can bring two billion people into
the global economy almost over night through blockchain based financial tools. All they need is a mobile device. A lot of them have no identity, but
they have a supercomputer in their pocket. We can implement blockchain based land
title systems to protect people's rights. Individuals can make money from owning and
selling their own data. The sky is really the limit. Lets pre-distribute wealth by enabling people to more
directly engage in the economy. A third assumption was business and
labor are pillars of prosperity. Well, that made sense at the time. Businesses provided income and
other benefits to their workers. Labor unions also played a key role,
because they made sure workers received a fair element of that value, and
were involved in decision-making. And government set useful policies for
business labor, with some certainty they'd
play out as planned. But with the rise of shareholder and
management power came the age of imbalance- not just an imbalance of power
between corporations and workers, but an imbalance between quarterly incentives
and long term capital investment. Today's swarms of short time investors
control a psyche of corporate executives, charged with the future
of entire industries. Workers no longer hold sway. We need to rethink the mission of
businesses to generate shareholder wealth, over all other types of value
they could be contributing. As responsible participants
in communities, we need a more distributed model,
a model where businesses and business benefit has much
from healthy workers and vibrant communities as
from investor confidence. Fourth assumption of
the old social contract was politicians act in the public interest. A worldwide crisis of democracy,
and even the legitimacy of democracy as a system,
suggests otherwise. Democratic institutions increasingly
bow to campaign funders, not voters in the communities
they represent. Leaders react to polls, not people and
not to science and independent research. We need to rethink how we've
implemented representative democracy. For starters,
let's insist on transparency. We need the facts and
we need to free politics from big money. We need campaign finance reform. And a new social contract can guide
a high-performance government with modern technology to distribute and
enforce citizen rights. Be these voting rights and the rights
to quality education and health care. A new social contract can draw
on collaborative institutions. Through mass collaboration we could
see programs like publicly funded kindergarten all the way through
to post-secondary education. Cooperative science and research and
affordable healthcare for all. We can afford it,
we just need to make it happen. A fifth assumption of the past was
that there was evidence-based debate, compromise, and
collaboration across political parties. The rise of the digital society with
access to a lot of content from competing sources has really
fragmented public discourse. You all know the Internet holds
an endless supply of opinions, some well-researched and reasoned,
and others spun out of fears, half-truths, and misunderstandings. And still others are just plain lies. The free flow of content is both
a boon and a curse, because it supports free speech on the one hand; but
it spreads rumors quickly on the other. And there's a danger that we end up in
these self-reinforcing echo chambers, where we only hear our own point of view. And in that world, the purpose of
information is not to inform us, it's to give us comfort for
our preconceived ideas. Cyberbullying, hate speech, trolling,
getting in the way of civil discourse and foreign powers can even intervene
in the electoral process. So we need to rethink how we
cultivate an informed society. How do we inform ourselves when the old
ways of doing that are collapsing? Transparency in reporting
can help restore trust. In the fourth estate of journalism,
as watch dogs of the government, we can increase access by making
broadband access widely and cheaply available to give
rise to new communities. And radical thing but
we still believe in evidence based debate. That there are facts and
that we can have compromise and collaboration across political parties. As well as the defense of individual
freedoms, privacy, security and autonomy. Of course as we've discussed
blockchain is central to all of these. The sixth assumption was that
Mother Earth will take care of herself. That was the old social contract. It was written at a time of
abundant natural resources, modern plumbing, electrical grids. Those of us born in United States and
Canada can't imagine life without drinkable tap water,
clean air, but our resources are not unlimited, and
our impact on the Earth is real. The question is whether we'll survive, and whether we'll even survive as a species. We've already contributed to
the extinction of many others. Are we next or in the line? Human activity does
cause climate change and every scientist in the world,
pretty much, agrees with that. Poorly regulated industry
strains the environment. We see the health effects of polluted air,
water, and food. We see homes destroyed and
lives lost in extreme weather events. From fires to flooding. We, as individuals and
industries need to take responsibility for our effects on the biosphere. At all levels of human activity,
we need to reverse this impact. Looking out for
number one may work in the short term but nobody succeeds in a world that's failing. And the way to look out for number
one maybe to look out for all of us. We have an opportunity and the obligation
to rewrite the social contract. We're calling for nothing less than
a declaration of interdependence. We can only hope to build a more
equitable, productive, just, inclusive economy by breaking
out of our silence and engaging in honest conversation. Just as digital technologies contributed
to the breakdown of the old social contract, they have an important
role to play as we create the new. If you've questions or comments about what
you'd like to see in this new contract, please post them to the discussion forum. And for more on this topic, check out the afterword to the paperback
edition of Blockchain Revolution.