In this lesson, we look at the need
to rethink work. Again, I've always been a
technology optimist that technology displaces jobs but
it creates more new jobs. But with the power of this
Fourth Industrial Revolution, I think that's no longer true. Automation has already
displaced workers across sectors and we're seeing signs of early
structural unemployment. Up to half of the
activities now performed by humans will be handled by artificial
intelligence based on blockchain in
the next few decades. More and more workers
have to piece together a living from several
employers even today. Freelancers, independent
contractors in the United States need to buy their own
health insurance, pay self-employment, tax on
top of their income taxes, and set aside money
for their retirement. Arguably, we need to
change how we think about economic opportunity as we enter this Fourth Industrial
Revolution. Private sector,
the state, academics, civil society all have roles to play in finding or making
these opportunities. Governments,
especially, need to get much better at anticipating
where the economy is going. We need new measures and we
need to cut some old ones. Many have questioned the value of national unemployment rates. They are not based on
the concept of a full-time job. Anyone who worked an hour and got paid would be
considered employed. Anyone who didn't
look for a job in the last 30 days
wouldn't be counted. Some estimate that
this metric excludes between five million and six
million unemployed people in the United States alone. So should it really
be a key metric of prosperity in
the digital economy? We propose two other measures
worth exploring. The first is the idea
of a guaranteed job. Now of course this would
have to be backed up by a Universal Basic Income
or UBI as well. We should decide that
everyone has the right to work and guarantee
a job for everyone. Why? Well, people get fulfillment and
a sense of self-worth through work and also
there's plenty to be done. There are problems to
be solved everywhere. So if the private sector can
guarantee full employment, we need to find other ways. Funding can come from
philanthropy, from civil society, from social innovation,
from the state, or through the
other measures we've talked about to pre-distribute wealth. Of course some people will be unable to work: disabled people, people with mental
illnesses, or dementia, or others who are temporary or permanently unable to work. Others may temporarily
lack the skills for the new workforce
and need to spend considerable time in
education and training. So a guaranteed job, but for those who
are unable to work, we of course need
a fallback position. We're not going to have
people starving in the streets in an age
of growing wealth. So the idea of
a Universal Basic Income has been discussed for
awhile since the 1970s. It's made the rounds under
a lot of labels like a guaranteed annual income
or a negative income tax. But if society does
have the wealth to support the basic livelihood
of these people, and we do, then we will need to guarantee them some
kind of way of surviving. The basic idea is this:
let's ensure everyone has a level of income
security regardless of their status or position. There would be no discrimination, everyone will get one, and therefore no stigma attached. Contrasts that with
today's subsidies implemented through
government silos. It means tests. There's the Medicaid and the
Children's Health Insurance. There's supplemental
nutrition insurance. There's public housing, there's welfare payments, and so on. Let's break down those silos. Let's end the stigma. Let's use the global
solution networks that we've discussed
in this course, running distributed applications
on blockchains to manage these sources with
efficiency and transparency. Supporters say it's
the best model to give income security. It will restore dignity and
autonomy to the individual, and it would also reduce the complexity and
the bureaucracy. Others argue that a UBI is too expensive to be sustainable. They think it would be a
disincentive for people to work. It would undermine
organized labor. It would undo the better
benefits some workers enjoy. On balance, the arguments for a UBI tend to outweigh
those against one. Guys standing of the University
of London wrote, "The 20th century
income distribution system is broken
down irretrievably." A UBI is not only
necessary, it's urgent. We can learn much from
UBI pilot programs in Finland, Canada, and other places. We can apply those lessons on a larger scale along
with other measures to give social security
for those who work but don't get
employer benefits. One other measures are
second modest proposal. A portable safety net.
What does that mean? Well, a portable safety net
isn't a new idea. There are lots of models
out there for it, how would work and so on. It's a matter of mustering the political will
to get it done. One model developed
by Steven Hill is based on multi-employer
benefits plans. These kinds of
plans already exist and are used by
a lot of industries, and this model would establish individual security
counts into which all employees would
contribute based on each workers hours. Such a program would restore benefits to people who
worked multiple jobs, change roles often,
or contractors, freelancers,
other part-time giggers, and also an arbitrary rules
separating types of workers. These measures could also help stabilize the economy
and eliminate loopholes for employers to hire part timers and cut
benefits entirely. The ship would also cut golden handcuffs where
you stay in a job too long when you could be pursuing more fulfilling or productive
opportunities elsewhere. Most important, this
Universal Basic Income and a portable safety net together could reestablish
economic security, kind of inspired way
back by the New Deal. Such bold programs, and
all the accounting for them, wouldn't be possible without distributed ledger
technology to track individual counts over
lifetimes with transparency. So it's time to think about how to avoid or at least minimize the unintended consequences of these powerful new technologies as they fuse across the physical, the digital, and
the biological spheres as part of this Fourth
Industrial Revolution. If you've got
questions or comments, please post them on
the discussion forum. We'd love to hear from you. For more on this topic, checkout the new Afterward to the paperback edition of
Blockchain Revolution. Up next, we look at
the pre-distribution of wealth.