In this video, we'll look
at distributed power, another way of saying
democratic ownership. But backing it up with blockchain technology.
Here's the challenge. Growth in value over the last
quarter century has gone almost entirely to those who already hold
great wealth and power. That's true at
the enterprise level, it's true at
the institutional level, and it's true at
the individual level. The voices of capital, finance, and multinational firms
move policy in ways that small business organized labor and communities can
never hope to move, and those are the very
groups who suffer the most from the economic imbalance. Entrepreneurs caught in
the asymmetry are handicapped against large incumbents
with concentrated power. We'd like to revive the idea
of mutual interdependence. Rather than a race to the top, we need to think of a real power distributed in the middle. Distributed power. That means owners,
stakeholders, workers, and their communities
have equal stakes in the success and
impact of a business. Blockchains are
the technology platforms for distributed power. They support
consensus mechanisms, incentives for participation, and management of
stakeholder rights. Stakeholders could include supply chain partners
and customers, too. If we truly value this middle, we can build a stronger
and more stable economy, a more inclusive economy.
We'll get there. Only through open conversation
and true debate over the terms of
a new social contract for the digital era. Our new social contract
must recognize business as an important
economic and social pillar, but it must also recognize the private sector's
responsibilities beyond the bottom line. You might remember
some of these details from earlier sessions. We looked at how industrial age business practices verge on exploitation in
a modern economy of precarious workers and
a biosphere of risk. Our situation calls for strengthen institutions
and good governance. The social contract must include the state's support of
responsible business practices, fair competition, and
reasonable taxation. It must support the rights of consumers, suppliers, and labor. A globalized economy
must enshrine the 1948 UN declaration
of human rights. We need to bring stakeholders together
with a common purpose. There's no place for a model of mutually exclusive interests. The American Prosperity Project, an initiative of
the Aspen Institute, has brought together leaders from industry and organized labor. Their goal is to develop
a framework for business to engage in
more long-term thinking. That includes investments
in infrastructure, in research, in education,
and in training. They recommend changes in
tax code and laws around corporate governance in
a proposed policy framework. The CEO of Unilever, Paul Polman, had something to say about the framework and
an article in the Atlantic. He favored a shift
in perspective, and urged his peers to look
beyond the quarterly report. There's a risk leaders won't make decisions in
the public interest if the purpose of a company is only to maximize shareholder return. We've seen that play out. It may work for traders
in the short-term, but it rarely works for all stakeholders
in the long-term. We can use blockchain
technology as a platform for aligning efforts, voting on initiatives, tracking
costs with transparency, and holding all stake
holders accountable.