In this video, you'll learn how the Internet second era enabled by the rise of
Blockchain Technology, gives us a chance to replace our old top-down
industrial age model of institutions
with something new, with a digital age model of mutually-beneficial
collaboration. Today's institutions are based on an outdated view of the world, one of powerful
industrial forces. Forces pushing ads, media, lectures, and medicines at us. Mass production,
mass marketing, mass media, mass transportation, education, and democracy
for the masses. This mass mindset has a hold on every institution from
agriculture in healthcare, to energy, and housing, all push their message one way to passive recipients also
known as mass consumers. But now, thanks to
digital technologies, we can distribute
power outside of these institutions to
the masses, to consumers, to teachers,
journalists, drivers, farmers, doctors, and
representatives of neighborhoods. They can collaborate with
their peers and the people they serve to co-create value. Digital technology has already changed how education and
health care are planned, how they're managed
and delivered, and how research and
development are conducted. The flipped classroom
is an exciting model of collaboration powered
by new technologies. Students access course content outside of the classroom
and at their own pace. They collaborate with
their peers both online and off. They define and
solve problems under the guidance of
a teacher or mentor. It's happening now as I speak. Some professions such as engineering and
mechanics are using virtual reality and
augmented reality to train and update
their knowledge on the job. Educators and students,
caregivers and patients, researchers and developers, have a new shared tool set across sectors and
across geographies. How do we design and deliver the infrastructure to
give access to all? The state needs to step up
and support funding for education and health care as part of this new
social contract. This is essential
infrastructure for our modern economy and for a strong and healthy
democratic society. As we have discussed one of the key areas of innovation
is around identity. Self-sovereign identity is now becoming a possibility
because of blockchain. Students and their parents will begin claiming rights
to student data. Higher education must
put ownership of student data into the hands of students and their parents. Students can own and control their own data but not alter
their grades or degrees. Protecting the privacy and cybersecurity of
students is a must. University systems have been
hacked in recent years. Blockchain startup
the learning machine and MIT are at the forefront of preserving the student rights. Micro-credentialing of skills and know-how is also a must. Mass adoption of
blockchain certificates re-balances power between the institutions
and the students. You become your own
lifelong registrar. Importantly, new funding models
are also emerging. Blockchain technology helps
us create new ways to pay for higher education including
pay-as-you-go models. The finishing four-year mandate should go the way
of the buggy web. No student should be rejected
for financial reasons, or graduate with a pile
of student debt. The healthcare sector is
also ripe for disruption. Blockchain offers
a potential solution. It helps put the patient
at the center of the health care system
and it allows them to own and control
their own data. Distributed ledgers serve
a set of principles; collaboration, openness,
and integrity. They increase security, privacy, and our ability to
audit our health data. It increases the interoperability of systems housing
our information. Stakeholders include
medical schools, hospitals, laboratories,
medical suppliers, public health agencies, National Food and Drug
regulators, Global Centers for
Disease Control, and professional associations. They need to come together and co-create data with
full transparency, public access, and
shared control, all through the health of the communities that they serve. Blockchain startups
are working on applications for genomics
and precision medicine. They're also working on solutions for managing
patient data, clinical trials,
healthcare, and insurance. They're also looking
to track drugs from the formulary
to the pharmacy, and these are just the beginning. In general, digital technologies can enable you to
take more active role in or even full control of your own education
and health needs. Multi-stakeholder, global solution networks
do the heavy lifting here. As we've pointed out
in earlier lessons, these networks unite people
across multiple fields, sectors, and geographies to tackle the complex
challenges of our day. There are groups of
independent parties who come together to address a problem they all
find important, in which no single group
can tackle on its own. They become a true network
when they start working together rather
than on their own, or at cross purposes. They begin communicating
about a problem, and coordinating
their activities on a solution. Turns out several such collaborative networks
already exist. We have Wikipedia for
knowledge-sharing. We have Avaaz.org for advocacy. We have Human Rights Watch
as a watchdog. We have the World Wide
Web Consortium to develop policies and
standards for the Internet. We have the Internet Society
for governance. We have ICANN for operations. We have the World Economic Forum to play several of
these roles at once. All of these collaborations
and the benefits gained from them can be supported by
blockchain technologies, and each of these groups can
support blockchain in turn. These networks engage and strengthen civil
society at all levels. In earlier sessions, we discussed the four
pillars of society, all of whom are stakeholders
standing to benefit from a successful collaboration
and outcome, and we know that global solution networks
will bind them all. Businesses are called upon to contribute both concepts
and solutions, while governments
bring data, ideas, and usually play an important
implementation role. Global solution
networks break silos and cut across traditional
established lines. It's the digital era's best model to bring together the knowledge, the experience, and the ideas of lots of individuals
and organizations. It brings together
communities, regions, nations, and international bodies
to collaborate on options and solutions for the challenges and opportunities that we face.