In this module, we looked
at the relationship between these technologies of the fourth industrial age
including Blockchain on one hand and our
social contract on the other. You may remember,
social contract is a shared understanding
of the roles and relationships of individuals
and institutions in society. We looked at how
the old industrial age social contract is breaking down. Change in the digital
era accelerates faster than our regulators
and policies can keep up, more it falls to the
private sector to play a leadership role
in our transition to a new social contract. We talked about
the four drivers for change. Technology, the fourth
Industrial Revolution and the forces of globalization, demographics and global warming. These disruptions have
led and are leading to structural unemployment and big changes in labor markets. Automation will displace
sectors of the economy and workers and globalization
appends labor as well. Investors have more influence. The gap between the haves and the have-nots
unbelievably is widening today and growing
economic inequality only worsens our problems. Extreme weather and climate change displays
whole populations. We've seen staggering numbers
of migrants and refugees fleeing for their lives and that will only get worse. For all the unintended
consequences of human progress and
technological progress, we can still use
technology to address our problems and advocate
for a new social contract. You've learned about
the four pillars of society, governments, private sector, civil society and individuals. You are a pillar. We all need to collaborate
to forge new understandings. Private sector needs to play an important role in creating
this new social contract. In the past, the private sector
took part in democracy, until the greater good
took a back seat to maximizing wealth for
shareholders and executives. Now, we need to refocus on creating value for
all stakeholders, now and in the long-term. Business can lead
this work and this effort by helping
us rethink work, rather than redistributing
wealth we can pre-distribute wealth by giving people power to create
products and services, control their own data and to be fairly compensated for
the value they create. We can distribute
this power more fairly among all stakeholders
not just the wealthy and these
opportunities are possible only through digital technologies
like blockchain, where activities are transparent and we can hold
parties accountable, exciting time to be alive. If you've got questions
about this module, check out the discussion forum
and for review check out the afterword to the paperback edition of
Blockchain Revolution. On behalf of my co author Alex Tapscott and
our academic partner NCN. Thank you for joining us.