Congratulations on
completing our course on blockchain and business. This is a sweeping course, and we've covered a lot of
ground in our time together. We've looked at how
blockchain will bring about a profound change, and the ways companies
grade value, including core functions like,
marketing and accounting. The technology will change
the deep structures of the firm and encourage innovation and decentralization
of operations. We've looked at four kinds of transaction costs in business, and how blockchain reduces
each kind of costs. We've compared
Internet search engines with blockchain-based search. We've looked at the factors business leaders should
consider when defining their corporate boundaries as boundaries become more porous. There are four types of blockchain-based
organizations we discussed; The distributed
application or DAP. Secondly, the autonomous agent, the open network enterprise, and fourth, the distributed
autonomous enterprise. That was a trip into
the future bed. We walked through
seven new business models and how blockchain technology
could support each one. We also looked at managing intellectual property
on the blockchain. We discussed how
blockchain will change each role in the executive suite. Not just the Chief
Executive Officers job, but also the work of
finance, marketing, human resources,
accounting, and operation. We closed big picture, but the challenges of regulating
blockchain technology. We went through each layer
of the blockchain stack, and how each helped or hindered the governance or
stewardship of blockchain. We studied 10 types of
governance networks, and the conditions
conducive to innovation and attracting wealth and innovators. If you've got questions, please visit
the discussion forum, and for a review of this course, checkout Chapters 4 and 5
of Blockchain Revolution. On behalf of my co-author,
Alex Tapscott, and our academic partner in [inaudible] Thank you
for your feedback, for your interest, and for your contributions to
the course discussion.