So when it comes to
business models, in general the initial paradigm was the user is the product. However I believe with this technology that
we're now seeing, there are additional business
models to be explored. Just to give you a brief example going back to the storage space. We have in our phones and
our computers and so on. In particular the
Inter-Planetary File System, the IPFS can provide
a way in which users can monetize this currently
and monetized resource. So it's not up to monetizing
the user anymore, but it's up to
the user to monetize the extra hard disk space
that just lies there. So it's like
an untapped resource. When you put this into the context an
information-based society. This should be like
really valuable, right? Also when you think
about the resilience. So as for thriving information
society and thinking not just now for the bottom line of this year but what
about ten years? What about a 100 years?
I don't know. We should think about, what the next generation can
build on top of this data. I think solutions like
IPFS open a new way in which information can live in a more resilient and
distributed fashion. Unlike the current paradigm, where you have
these huge data centers, which you know you
have like floods. You have all kinds of natural disasters that
can strike and so on. And yes you can have
a big data center, mirroring another big
data centered. But when you put
that against like this distributed network of
computers for moral round, sharing anything from 100
megabytes to terabytes of data the resilience is
like hard to compare. And I believe that something
very valuable in itself, going beyond just monetizing. We're finding sustainable
business models. It's also about thinking about the long-term value
provided to society. It's not just about the company. This is one of
the areas we explore. When it comes to the longer let's say or the bigger picture, something that really
fascinates me, I also had the presentation on this topic which was named, From Collected Intelligence
to Collective Intelligence. Also points towards this future where people do not have to rely on someone like the local authorities to
make something happen. So you have these communities
that for example need the playing ground fixed, right? So instead of going
putting that petition, waiting for all the bureaucratic
processes and so on. You have these concepts like crowdfunding proven
eat for decades now. But in this context where you already have these communities
using WhatsApp groups, Facebook groups and so on. So they are already used to these digital way of
organizing themselves. I've also the ability
to put money together to fix that playground as an example and then
you have the transparency and accountability and
how that money is spent. You almost have
this emergent system enabling collectives of all sizes to better organize
and take action. I think that's something very exciting that's going
to point towards the next phase of what this interconnectedness
can bring to us, more than just annoying
notifications.