Blockchain will bring about
profound changes to business, and even to the nature
of business itself. This technology will disrupt how enterprises are
funded and manage, how they create value, and even how they perform basic functions like
marketing and accounting. We'll see changes to the deep structure and
architecture of the firm, and how we orchestrate capability
in society to innovate, to create goods and services, and to engage with
the rest of the world. Businesses of the past were
vertically integrated, meaning that they did
everything from soup to nuts, and there's a reason for that. The costs of transacting in an open market were
prohibitively high. So we brought
all this capability inside the boundaries of a firm where transaction
costs were lower. These big companies
dominated because it was costly and complex among other things to start a business, to find customers, to raise
funds from investors. In that case, the list of
potential candidates for funding being limited to a few local venture
capitalists or banks. Well, many of
these challenges and costs will be reduced or
solved by blockchain. By reducing the transaction
costs of doing business, companies will be
able to launch, grow, create value more cheaply. The enterprise of the future may not look like the enterprise
of the past at all, but rather more like
a group of networks. In fact, the most
successful companies may not be companies at all, but networks of
organizations, individuals, and autonomous agents
connecting via smart contracts to deliver all the value of today's
big centralized behemoths. My name is Don Tapscott, and I'd like to welcome
you to Blockchain and Business: Applications
and Implications. In this course, you'll learn how blockchain technology will penetrate into the structures of organizations
encouraging innovation. You'll learn how
blockchain enables decentralization
of value creation, and of the enterprise. You'll understand four kinds of transaction costs of a firm, and explain how blockchain
reduces each kind of cost. We'll dive into how blockchain search differs
from Internet search, and the factors business leaders
should consider when to finding their
corporate boundaries. You'll also be able to define four types of
blockchain organizations; One, the distributed
application or DApp. Two, the autonomous agent. Three, the open
networked enterprise. Four, the distributed
autonomous enterprise. We'll discuss
seven new business models, and how blockchain technology
could enhance these models. You'll learn how to find
new ways to manage and protect intellectual property
on a blockchain. We'll look at how blockchain will transform the rules of
the C-suite executives. We'll also review
the difference between regulation and governance
of blockchain, and we'll get into
the challenges of regulating in
this new environment. You'll be able to identify the different layers of
the blockchain technology stack, and how these layers help or hinder the governance
of blockchain systems. You'll be able to describe 10 types of governance networks, and seven qualities that
a region and the world needs to attract technology startups and build a vibrant ecosystem. If you have no prior
knowledge of blockchain, then I recommend taking our course Introduction to
Blockchain Technologies first. Before we dive into these really exciting lessons
on blockchain and business. In the next video, I'm going to share with you some more details
about my career, and introduce you to
my co-instructor, Alex Tapscott. We'll explain why we're so passionate about this technology, and so committed to sharing our knowledge with
people just like you.