Hello. I'm Don Tapscott
and I've spent my career studying how digital technologies can
transform our lives. I've written a lot of books
about this, 16 in total, such as the Digital
Economy and also Wikinomics: How Mass
Collaboration Changes Everything. I'm also the co-author of the best-selling book
Blockchain Revolution: How the Technology
Behind Bitcoin and Other Cryptocurrencies
is Changing the World. As well, I'm an adjunct professor at the business school, INSEAD. We're thrilled to have a couple of minutes to talk to you, to talk about what
we're doing and what we hope to do with this course. Hi. I'm Alex Tapscott and I'm also the co-author of
Blockchain Revolution, which was published in 2016, and remains to this day
the best selling book on blockchain translated
into over 15 languages. Harvard Business School's
Clay Christiansen told us, "The blockchain revolution
is the book on how to survive and thrive in this next wave of technology
driven disruption." Tim Draper, the
well known venture capitalist of Draper
associates, told us that, "This book has
the predictive quality of Orwell's Nineteen Eighty-Four, and the vision of Elon Musk." Satya Nadella, the CEO of
Microsoft, told us that, "The book has had
an enormous impact on the evolution of
blockchain in the world." It's quite high praise and we are deeply humbled by all of it. So it's clearly got a lot
of people thinking, about the power of
this technology to transform both
business and society. Well, those quotes
are pretty humbling. So, CEOs and government
leaders started asking some big questions
above blockchain. How will this technology
transform specific industries? What are the real challenges facing blockchain
development today? How can we overcome
those challenges? How will block chain change
the nature of the enterprise, the way we manage our companies? What will it mean for
government architecture and the creation of
services of public value? How could this technology
help us solve some big problems such
as climate change? So a couple of years ago, we founded the Blockchain
Research Institute. This is a think tank dedicated to answering these big questions. We're conducting
the definitive investigation of blockchains impact on business,
government, and society. Overall, we have more than
a 100 projects underway. This is a big multi-million
dollar program. We also developed this
specialization of four courses, and much of these four
courses are informed by the work that we did
in those 100 projects. Much of the work that
we have done to date is going to be available
to all of you. We're also collaborating
with INSEAD and Coursera, to share what we've
learned thus far, and thus what we think is
important for you to know. There are many big ideas we'll cover throughout
this specialization. First, we are witnessing one of the largest transformation
of assets in human history, from an analogue to
a digital media. Bitcoin is but only one type
of digital asset. We're going to look at
the other six types of cryptoassets, the
ones that we can create, record, and trade
on the blockchain. This ability to trade
assets peer-to-peer on the blockchain
without going through a bank or some
other intermediary, is already disrupting the financial services
sector profoundly. We'll look at that and
the many other opportunities in the finance industry Second, is the idea of
self-sovereign identity. That's about our way to establish our own digital identities. Self-sovereign identities
can't be given or taken away by
any central administrator. They're enforceable
in any context in person and online and
anywhere in the world, and they let us capture
and control our own data, and manage our own identities to benefit us and our lives. We no longer need to
give up our data to big Internet landowners
such as Alibaba, Facebook, or Google just
to use their websites. We can store our data in a virtual black box that
moves around with us, and we can sell that
data or do whatever we want with it if we
choose to do so. Third, is the idea
of Smart contracts. A Smart contract, is a piece of special purpose code executing a complex set of instructions
on the blockchain. It's a means of codifying the terms of a deal in software. Now, this could be
a business deal between producers and consumers, or it could be a social pact between
a government and its citizens. What's important here is this, Smart contracts ensure
contractual compliance, they hold parties accountable. The blockchain provides
a high degree of certainty as to the outcome
of these agreements. Smart contracts self-executing
without the need for intermediaries like
banks or governments, and frankly we've never had that kind of assurance before. Fourth, is the idea of
decentralized business models. These are business models distributed across
a blockchain network, not centralized in
a traditional corporation. They can be fully autonomous too, meaning, no humans involved. There's big potential for
true peer-to-peer models like ride-sharing without Uber as a middleman taking fees. Owners of driverless cars
will someday be able to put their autonomous
vehicles to work. So even the big disruptors can be disrupted by this new technology. Fifth, is the idea of
the Ledger of Things. We're already seeing
applications of this new Internet of
devices and things. Soon though, most
transactions will happen between devices and
not between people. Consider the smart home. Home owners were adding
smart devices such as thermostats and solar panels, and soon potentially trillions of devices will be connected
to the Internet. Doing everything from driving us around to keeping our house lit, to managing our affairs, and managing
our health information. These devices need to be
resistant to hacking. They need to be able to
communicate value such as money or assets like
electricity peer-to-peer. Consider electricity. If you imagine that your neighbor's home is
generating energy from a solar panel and you've got a device that needs to
buy that electricity, then those two devices need
a way to be able to contract, bargain, and execute a
payment peer-to-peer. It's not going to happen
through the Visa network, it can only happen
on the blockchain. We've given you a glimpse of cryptoassets,
digital identity, Smart contracts,
new business models, and the Ledger of Things. These are all themes of
the modules ahead of you. We're just pleased to
be working with INSEAD and Coursera to share
all this information with you, and we're happy that
you're joining us. If you've got questions for us, then just post them on
the discussion forum. Remember, technology
alone doesn't solve problems, people do. It doesn't create
prosperity, people do. Our hope is that you'll
connect with each other. Identify your common
interests and let's solve some big
problems together.