Welcome back. You may
remember our discussion of the Ethereum blockchain
from our previous courses. It's hard to talk about distributed ledgers and not
really mention Ethereum. Vitalik Buterin, a Canadian
of Russian descent, was only 19 in 2013, when he came up with
the idea for Ethereum. He told Bitcoin's core developers that the platform needed a robust scripting language
for developing applications, and they reject him. So he decided to build
his own platform. The day Ethereum went
live in July of 2015, Don Tapscott and I were
visiting the Brooklyn offices of consensus systems
known as ConsenSys, and Ethereum production studio. There were high fives
all around as the Ethereum network
created its genesis block. Miners all over the world
were racing to win the first block of ether,
Ethereum's native currency. Ethereum runs
decentralized applications such as smart contracts. It runs them as programmed, without the risk of downtime, censorship, fraud, or
third party interference, according to its website. Like Bitcoin, ether is
an incentive for participation. It attracts a network of
peers to work together, to validate transactions,
secure the network, and ultimately to achieve
consensus on the blockchain. Unlike Bitcoin, the Ethereum platform allows
for much greater creativity. Developers can create
applications as diverse as online games to stock exchanges
and not just currencies. ConsenSys's co-founder,
Joseph Lubin, wants to do more than just
build a great company. He wants to solve
the world's biggest problems using blockchain technology. The apps that consensus
and others building on the Ethereum network are developing could shake
up a dozen industries. Projects include a distributed triple-entry
accounting system that could change audit, an open energy market that
could transform utilities, and prediction markets for business, sports,
and entertainment, also rights management platforms for artists and musicians, and collectible digital assets
like CryptoKitties. ConsenSys is pioneering important new ground
in management science. The consensus management model
takes its cues from the so-called Holacracy
movement where individuals define and align the work they need to do together just
to get the job done. There's no hierarchy in the traditional sense or
no middle managers per se, but Lubin told us that Holacracy still feels a bit too
rigid and structured. So, ConsenSys is
adapting a lot of its philosophies
into a new model. Instead of traditional
job descriptions, ConsenSys employees have
more dynamic roles. Authority is distributed
not delegated. Rules are transparent to
reduce office politics, and the enterprise is built to respond quickly to
changing needs. ConsenSys works really more like a blockchain platform itself than a traditional corporation. How it creates value and
how it manages itself is very different from
the typical corporation or even technology company. Lubin believes that
we need to change capitalism if we want to survive. Today's networks help us
to communicate faster, better, and cheaper
than ever before. But the old command and
control hierarchies are really still the rule
in most corporations. Blockhain challenges
those top-down structures. Lubin told us, "Global human
society can now agree on the truth and make decisions in 10 minutes or even 10 seconds." He believes that
giving people more of a voice can lead to
greater prosperity for everyone. ConsenSys operates
according to a plan. The plan was developed, voted on, and adopted by all the
members of ConsenSys. Joe Lubin describes
its structure as a hub rather than a hierarchy. Each of its projects
is a difference spoke. Major contributors to
each spoke hold equity. As noted, participants are
members not employees. Now, these members choose
from two to five projects to work on at any point in time,
no top-down assignments. Lubin said, "We build small, agile teams, but there's
collaboration among them." They share as much as possible. The watchwords here are agility,
openness, and consensus. A member sees a piece
of work to be done, the member jumps in and
pushes it a little or a lot as appropriate
given the members role. Now, lots of open communication makes people aware
of their priorities, but priorities can and do change, and they do so constantly. ConsenSys is a
blockchain-based company or blockcom as opposed
to what we call a.com. A blockcom is
a company formed and functioning on
blockchain technologies. The company runs on Ethereum
really as much as possible. This includes funding,
day-to-day tasks and projects, as well as software
development and testing. That also includes hiring, it uses reputation systems where members can rate one
another as collaborators. Boundaries are blurred
in this new model. The ConsenSys ecosystem can form new spokes if they reach
consensus on the spoke strategy, architecture, capital performance measures,
and governance. They may launch a company
to compete within an existing market or they may try to
create a new market. The decentralized
structure leaves him free to communicate, to be creative, and to adapt. This is a radical new experiment
in creating value. Unlike every new experiment, it has experienced growing pains since that fateful day
when Ethereum went live, ConsenSys has exploded
to an organization that has over 1,000 members
all around the world. Market volatility
recently has forced the company to rethink
its strategy and downsize, but the ethos and practice of the distributed enterprise
still reigns. Regardless of whether
ConsenSys itself succeeds, this new business model
powered by blockchain is a profound change from the status quo of
the old corporation.