In this video, we'll look at blockchain's potential to change the boundaries of the firm. The first era of
the Internet brought us several different
organizational forms. There was the
networked enterprise, the flat organization, the open innovation movement
and business ecosystems. I've had my share of writing
about these over the years. But the big hierarchies of the early 20th
century corporation remain pretty much intact. Even the big.coms and
so called Internet companies adopted a top-down structure with decision-makers
of Jeff Bezos, Sundar Pichai, and
Mark Zuckerberg. Incumbent firms have shown little desire to
use blockchain to distribute power to increase transparency or to
be more inclusive. Respecting customer privacy
and anonymity, is not really a priority
to say the least. In fact, companies making
money off other people's data and operating largely
behind closed doors, have had data breach after data breach but they haven't
really suffered much. They should be wary, we think. Blockchain has
a potential to do to these companies what the Internet did to the Industrial
Age companies. So, let's start with
a little economics. Hang in there. This
is going to be good. Nobel Prize winning
economist Ronald Coase 80 years ago identified
three types of what he called transaction
costs in the economy. First, was the cost of search. Finding all the right people
and information and resources outside of a company
to create something. Second, was the cost
of coordination, getting all those people to
work together efficiently. Third, was contracting costs. Keeping trade secrets, negotiating the cost of
labor and materials, and policing and enforcing
those agreements. Coase argued that a firm would expand until the costs
of performing a transaction inside the firm exceeded the cost of performing
it outside the firm. The Internet did have an impact
on business initially. It dropped transaction costs
somewhat in an open market. It dropped search costs through browsers and the worldwide web. It dropped coordination
costs through email, social media, cloud computing. It lowered the barriers
to entering some markets. Lots of companies benefitted from outsourcing customer service
and accounting, as these costs in
an open market became lower than doing things inside
the boundaries of a firm. Marketers engage customers
direct with product planners, crowdsourced innovations
manufacturers tapped into vast supply networks. But the Internet of
information has really had limited impact on
corporate architecture overall. Think about it. Capitalism's still runs on the classic industrial
age hierarchy. Most functions that companies do are within their boundaries. Managers still view
the hierarchy with a clear corporate boundary as a better model for
organizing assets, talent, and capital, and intangible assets like
intellectual property. The old corporate model concentrates power at
the top of the hierarchy, and in many cases it
can stifle innovation. At least compared to new models. Corporate boards still
pay executives far beyond any reasonable measure of the value that they create. This is widely understood, but it's one of those sayings
like Mark Twain said about the weather
everybody's talking about it, nobody is doing
anything about it. The industrial complex
still generates wealth. But, increasingly not prosperity. That's a big problem. There's strong evidence
of an increase of oligopolies in some industries
even monopolies. Another Nobel laureate
Oliver Williamson predicted these outcomes. He pointed out the bad effects of industry consolidation
on productivity. It leads to weaker incentives
and stronger controls. Not everybody agrees
with what I just said. Peter Thiel, co-founder of PayPal praise monopolies in
his book Zero to One. Thiel said, "Competition
is for losers. Creative monopolies aren't just good for the rest of society; they're powerful engines
for making it better". But Thiel gave
no real evidence to prove monopolies are good for
consumers or society as a whole. Companies strive to rule
their industry or market. But most democratic
capitalist countries have laws to protect
fair competition. Firms with no real competition
can grow inefficient, raising prices in and
outside the firm. Monopolies may help with
innovation in the short term, but overall, they harm
society in the long term. Look at the technology industry
is a case in point. Companies may get
monopoly power through cool products and services
that customers love. But their honeymoon
typically ends, their creation remains popular. But over time innovation
declines or even stops. Harvard University Law professor Yochai Benkler said to us, "The Web didn't come
from monopolies; it came from the edge. Google didn't come
from Microsoft. Twitter didn't come from AT&T, or even from Facebook." Why? Because they lack what
he calls the internal culture of pure and open exploration
required for innovation. Bureaucracy keeps
executives at the top from seeing the signs of change
at their companies edge. That's where accompanies
bump up against one another. That's where
innovation occurs and ignoring it is bad for business. So, there's real value
in the next era of the Internet and
real incentives to join in. These platforms
based on blockchain hold promise for
protecting user identity, respecting user rights,
ensuring network security, and dropping
these transaction costs. Even the unbanked can take part. Unlike traditional firms,
blockchain platforms don't need a brand to convey the trustworthiness of
their transactions, they can share their power by giving away
their source code for free. Using consensus
mechanisms to make decisions and conducting
their businesses more openly. Earlier, we covered how
blockchain technology can cut out the middleman or
cause them to change. Well, it can do a
lot more than that. It can turn vertically
integrated hierarchies into networks. It can lower barriers
to opportunity.