In this video, we look
at how companies can use blockchain technology
define the information, goods and services they need. Outsourcing was
just the beginning. Companies like Procter
and Gamble are tapping into idea markets to find the best minds for dreaming up new products
or processes. Sixty percent of PNG's innovation now comes from this sort of
open market for brainpower. Companies like
Goldcorp have created global contests to
solve problems. Goldcorp published
its geological data and challenged others to find the next place it
should mind for gold. The gold they
pointed to increased the company's market
value 100 times over. The Worldwide Web brought
changes to the enterprise. How will innovative
business leaders harness the World Wide Ledger? The world wide ledger is a structured database of
structured information. Being able to search this ledger, would yield new insights like, who's sold which
discovery to whom? And at what price? Who owns this
intellectual property? Who's qualified to
handle this project? How many carbon credits
has this company saved? Which suppliers have
experience in China? Which subcontractors
delivered on time and on budget according to
their smart contract records? Query results won't be
resumes, or advertising links. You'll get transaction histories, proven track records of
individuals and enterprises, may be ranked by
reputation score. Several companies are working on search engines for blockchain. Google has put a lot of manpower on studying the potential
of this emerging platform. For example, there are three key distinctions between Internet search and
blockchain search. First, is user privacy. People own their personal data
in a digital black box. They can choose
their level of anonymity. Parties will be
able to search for information that
users have made open. Firms will need to
rethink recruiting. Human resources
will learn to query the blockchain with
yes-no questions. Do you have a PhD in
applied mathematics? Can you code in Java or Python? Can you work from January
through June next year? These queries will
yield a list of matches from job seekers
black-boxes. Firms could also pay
prospective talent to place their qualifications on a blockchain platform
to be sorted through. Hiring managers will use
reputation systems to assess candidates without
knowing necessarily age, gender, race or
country of origin. The upside is an end to subconscious or
institutional bias. No headhunter or executive
recruiting fees either. The downside is that precise queries lead
to precise results. There's less chance
for serendipity, finding a candidate who
lack some of what you need, but has great capacity
to learn and make the random creative connections
that a firm truly needs. Black box marketing will
call for new approaches too. Companies may pay to query
these black boxes of prospective customers to see who might meet
their target audience. Customers may withhold
certain data like say, gender. A no answer is still valuable, but the firms won't learn much beyond the yes or no results. Marketers will need to rethink
strategies based on email, social media, and
mobile marketing. Customers will need
to charge whatever makes reading at
firm's message worthwhile. So you'll be paying customers to listen to your elevator pitch. But it'll be tailored
to reach exactly the people you want to reach without invading
their privacy. You can test different
queries to learn about niche markets at every stage
of product development. The second distinction is that, search can be multi-dimensional. A search on the web today
finds a snapshot in time as index over
the last few weeks. Blockchain adds
a new dimension to search, sequence: seeing records in the order they were
hashed or uploaded. You can search
the Bitcoin block chain and find its first
commercial transaction. The famous purchase of
two pizzas by Laszlo for 10, 000 Bitcoins, wish he'd
hold onto the Bitcoins. For companies, this means
a need for better judgment. Managers must hire people
who've shown good judgment. Because there's no walking
back these poor decisions. There's no spinning
the order of events. Companies could use prediction
markets to test scenarios, or implement internal mechanisms
to reach consensus. Making all stake holders vote on the mission-critical
decisions. Executives at a future Enron couldn't deny prior knowledge
of bad behavior. The third distinction is, value. Blockchain Search offers
more powerful performance at a lower cost. Information on
the Internet is abundant, but unreliable and perishable. On the flip side, information on
the blockchain maybe scarce, but it's tamperproof
and permanent. Imagine a permanent
searchable record of important historical
information. Corporate staff will start
with an irrefutable view of their firm for developing
their financial statements, their annual reports, and reports to governments or donors. They'll use it to create
marketing materials for prospective employees,
clients, and consumers. Maybe they'll even
create a filter enabling stakeholders to see what they can see at the press of a button. Companies could have transaction, ticker tapes, and dashboards. Some for internal use, and some for public use, and competitors will create
dashboards and feeds of your firm as part of
their competitive research. It makes sense to put those on your website and to
draw everyone to you. So firms will have
huge incentives to look for resources
outside of their boundaries. Since they'll have far, far better information about the qualities and
record of candidates, either individuals or companies. Companies like ConsenSys
are developing identity systems where
job prospects or contractors will program
their personal avatars to disclose relevant
information to employers. These can't be hacked like
a centralized database can. Now, users are
motivated to contribute information because they own
and control their avatars. They can actually
monetize their own data. This is fundamentally
different than say LinkedIn, a central database
owned and monetized and yet not entirely secured
by a powerful company. What an amazing concept.