[MUSIC] In this video, we'll build on what
you've learned about smart contracts and how companies can use the blockchain
to reduce search costs. The next step is agreeing on terms and
sealing the deal. It's one thing to lower the costs of
finding what you need to do a job, but that's not enough to shrink
the size of a company. All parties still must
agree to work together. Contractual costs,
like negotiating the price of labor or an actual resources and
spelling of the terms and conditions, are one of the primary
reasons that firms exist. Companies need to monitor and
enforce the terms and seek remedies if their counter
parties don't deliver as promised. So long as it's cheaper to do things
inside the boundaries of a firm than in an open market,
companies will grow. If transaction costs, such as contracting, were to drop to zero, then we would be
free to connect and build value in an open market rather than inside the confines
of this thing called the corporation. Contracts are a way of establishing
trust and setting clear expectations. We've always had contracts,
especially social contracts, understandings of the relationship
between specialized roles. Some people in the tribe hunted and
protected the tribe and others gathered and created shelters. People have traded physical objects
peer-to-peer really since the dawn of man. Contracts are a more recent phenomenon. We began trading promises,
not property, but oral agreements proved to be as
unreliable as the eyewitnesses to them. Arrangements between strangers were rare,
or made by middle men who knew both parties. Even so,
contracts had to be fulfilled right away. There were no formal mechanisms to fulfill
the terms beyond what you could do by taking force. The written contract was a way to codify
an obligation and spell out expectations. Written contracts provided a plan of
action if someone didn't hold up his or her end of the bargain or
if something unexpected happened. But they couldn't exist in a vacuum. There had to be some legal framework for recognizing contracts and
preserving each parties' rights. So companies exist to enforce contracts among people who've agreed to
work towards a common goal. Contracting costs are lower inside
firms than outside of them in markets. Ronald Coase saw the corporate form as
a vehicle for long-term contracting, when short-term contracting
was just too much effort. Nobel laureate Oliver Williamson
advanced this idea. He argued, firms exist to resolve
conflicts largely through contracts made with various parties inside the firm. The only other dispute mechanism in
the open market was the court and that was expensive, time consuming,
and often unsatisfactory. Williamson also said, there were cases
like fraud or other illegal acts or conflicts of interest where there
was no dispute mechanism at all. Contracts within an organization
are enforced by management. Williamson wrote quote, a firm becomes its
own court of ultimate appeal, end quote. So firms can exercise authority
within their boundaries in a way the markets just can't
outside of those boundaries. Williamson thought of the firm as
a governance structure for contracts. Organizational structure matters
in reducing the costs of managing transactions. It's a recurring theme really in
the study of economic organization. For example, economists Michael Jensen and
William Meckling argued that corporate entities are nothing more than a
collection of contracts and relationships. Members of the blockchain industry
have picked up on this view. Ethereum's inventor, Vitalik Buterin, argues that corporate executives
should use a firm's assets only for certain purposes approved by,
say, a board of directors. They are, in turn,
subject to shareholder approval. Buterin wrote,
if a corporation does something, it's because it's board of directors
has agreed it should be done. If a corporation hires employees, it means
the employees are agreeing to provide services to the corporation's customers,
following specific rules. Often these involve payments. Buterin also wrote,
when a corporation has limited liability, it means that specific people have
been granted extra privileges to act with reduced fear of legal
prosecution by the government. A group of people with more rights
than ordinary people acting alone, but still ultimately, people. A corporation is, therefore,
nothing more than people and contracts all the way down. Smart contracts on the blockchain create
some new opportunities both inside and outside of corporate boundaries. Today, contracts are still largely
made up of atoms in the form of paper, not bits in the form of software. That means they still have
some big limitations, serving only to document an agreement. But if contracts were software, smart and distributed on the blockchain, they
could open up a world of possibilities. One important change would
be to make it easier for companies to use external resources. By reducing contracting costs,
the blockchain makes it easier for firms to develop relationships
outside their boundaries.