[MUSIC] In this video, we'll look at
the cost of coordinating people. So you've already searched and found them. You've agreed on terms and
you've sealed the deal. Now, you need to manage them. A constant theme of economist,
Ronald Coase, was the cost of coordinating different people, products, and processes
into an enterprise for creating value. Traditional economist believed that firms
had internal markets, Coase disagreed. He argued, when a workman moves from
department Y to department X, he doesn't go because of a change in relative
prices, he goes because he's ordered to. Nobel Laureate, Oliver Williamson, went on to explain there are two
significant coordinating systems. The first is the market. It's a price system for
decentralized allocation of resources. The second is hierarchy, it's
the organizing principle of traditional firms where some centralized
authority allocates resources. Centralized hierarchies are the norm for
better or for worse. Hierarchies have come under
scrutiny though, recently. They have been called structures for killing creativity and
undermining entrepreneurial drive. Their opaque nature lets
executives scapegoat employees. Yes, lots of management hierarchies
have become unproductive bureaucracies. But the concept of hierarchy
has gotten a bad rap. Canadian born psychologist, Elliot Jaques, defended hierarchy in
the Harvard Business Review, arguing, Managerial hierarchy is
the most efficient, the hardiest, and the most natural structure ever
devised for large organizations. Properly structured,
hierarchy can release energy and creativity, rationalize productivity,
and actually improve morale. The trouble is, in recent businesses history,
hierarchies have often been ineffective. Managers often rise to a level where
they lack the knowledge required for effective leadership. Progressive managers are thinking
about how to build effective and innovative organizations. The first generation of the Internet,
the Internet of Information, helped these forward thinking managers to
change the top-down assignment of work. Companies are making an effort to empower
employees and improve collaboration. Decentralization, networking, and
empowerment, these things make sense. Teams and projects have become
the basis for internal organizations. Email and video conferencing let people
work together across company silos and across boundaries. But today's social media tools are helping
lots of firms achieve new levels of internal collaboration. Businesses are focused on
giving employees a voice. Now there's a wide spread agreement
about what happens when firms distribute responsibility and power. It usually leads to better business
functioning, customer service, and innovation. But in practice,
it's still easier said than done. The Internet still hasn't really dropped
what economist call agency costs. The cost of making sure
everybody inside the firm is acting in the owner's interest. Noble winning economist, Joseph Stiglitz,
argued that agency costs have increased even as transaction costs have plummeted,
because firm's sheer size and complexity. And there's a huge pay gap between chief
executive officers and frontline workers. So how can blockchain technology
change how firms are managed and coordinated internally? The blockchain's smart contracts and
transparency should reduce agency costs at all levels
of management to a dramatic degree. And these changes will make
it harder to game the system. So firms could go beyond transaction
cost to tackle the real elephant in the boardroom, agency costs. Harvard University law professor,
Yochai Benkler told us, what's exciting to me about blockchain technology is that it
can enable people to function together, with the persistence and stability of an
organization, but without the hierarchy. Managers should brace for radical
transparency and how they coordinate and how they conduct themselves. Shareholders will be able to see the
inefficiencies, the unnecessary complexity in the huge gap between executive pay and
the value executives actually contribute. Remember, managers are intermediaries
between owners and workers. The blockchain is known for
cutting out intermediaries.