I don't need to tell
you that trust in our institutions is
at an all-time low. In this video, we'll look at
how Blockchain platforms can help rebuild trust and
why that's so important. As we have explained
in an earlier course, trust in business and society is the expectation that
the other party will act with integrity. That means acting with honesty, consideration, accountability,
and transparency. It's a lot of work
to establish trust. Economists say, "We have vertically integrated
firms because building trust is easier to build within corporate boundaries
than in an open market." So the challenge for firms
is figuring out what makes it possible to
trust external parties? Integrity should be
vital to business as labor, capital,
and technology. Economist Michael Jensen
and colleagues considered integrity to be
a factor of production. They explain how scandals
damaged corporate value, and why integrity is critical
to financial operations. It's not about virtue, it's an opportunity to create significant increases
in economic efficiency, productivity, and human welfare. They believe integrity on the part of individuals
or organizations, has enormous economic
implications for value, productivity, quality
of life, and more. Integrity is as important as labor, capital,
and technology. Wall Street lost trust
and nearly killed capitalism because of a whole slew of
integrity violations. Corporate social responsibility
advocates used to argue that companies "do
well by doing good." Well, we haven't
seen the evidence. Lots of companies did
well by doing bad. They've had bad labor practices
in the developing world. They've pushed their costs
onto society, like pollution. They've used monopoly power to violate customer rights,
like privacy. The market collapse of 2008, Totals companies do
badly by being bad. The major banks found
this out the hardware. Before 2008,
many banks were making upwards of 20 percent
return on equity. Today, it's often well
below five percent, with some not even making
your cost of capital. But it's just not realistic
to believe that Wall Street will suddenly wake up and
decide to act with integrity. Secrecy and short-term gain are fundamentally hard-wired into the Western financial system enter block chain and
digital currencies. What if parties didn't
trust one another? We could still act with honesty, accountability, consideration,
and transparency. What if those qualities were coded into the financial system? Blockchain developers
have coded it into the software protocols and deployed it across this network. Blockchain could be a new utility for the financial
services industry. The good news is that
the industry can reestablish trust and
keep it going forward. Blockchain is cutting
the cost of searching, contracting, coordinating,
and creating trust. So it should be easier
for firms to open up and forge trusting relationships
with external parties. Acting in one's self-interest serves everybody's interests, cheating the system costs
more than using it. The way it's designed. Blockchain helps ensure integrity and trust in transactions
between peers, it also helps achieve transparency a critical
factor in trust. Corporate brands and
ethical actions, these things still matter. Trusted brand are about more
than reliable transactions. Smart contracts can hold
executives accountable, they must stand by
their commitments because the software
enforces them. Companies can program relationships with
radical transparency. So everyone has
a better understanding about what each party
has agreed to. Above all, they must
be considerate of the interests of other parties when they conduct business, the platform demands it.