Welcome back. So
far in this module, we've been discussing how
blockchain platforms are dropping transaction cost
in an open market, causing the boundaries of
firms to become more porous. Business owners have
a chance to ask themselves, how big should
our company really be? The boundaries
separating a company from its vendors,
consultants, customers, and peers, are becoming
harder to define, and they're constantly
changing too. So companies, of course, will still exist no matter
how blockchain affects them. That's because, of
all the acts of searching, and contracting,
and coordinating, and establishing trust,
will remain more cost effective within
a corporate ecosystem than in a completely open market. Melanie Swan is the founder of the Institute for
Blockchain Studies. She said that people
won't be working solely as individuals
or freelancers, the so-called gig economy. She believes that there will be more "Flexible business entities made up of individuals and groups partnering
around projects." She views the new model of
the firm more like the guild, the pre-industrial group of
merchants and craftsmen. They work together in
a particular town, and they also use
the apprenticeship model to train the next
generation of workers. Swan said, "We will still need organizations acting as
coordinating mechanisms." But just how those teams
will go about collaborating still isn't clear. So leaders should be
strategic in determining what gives their company
a competitive advantage. And what should be inside
and what should be outside. Today, we often hear, firms should focus on their core. But core can change, and be constantly changing since blockchain technology is
lowering transaction cost. Everyone seems to have
a different idea of what the optimal
firm size should be if the goal is to maximize
shareholder wealth. Lots of firms we've studied, seem to follow whatever
direction the wind was blowing. Sending back office processing
outside the boundaries, was described as a no brainer. But often, managers didn't have a clear
understanding of why. Some firms take
a more disciplined approach. Management experts,
Gary Hamel and C.K. Prahalad, years ago, developed the well-known "Core
Competencies" concept, very famous Harvard
Business Review article. They said companies gain competitive advantage by
mastering a distinct competence. Those could be
specialized skills, proprietary techniques,
and unique knowledge. Companies could go outside
to acquire other resources. But a company may have mastered some activities not
critical to its core. So it needs to decide whether
to continue doing them. On the other hand,
you have strategist, Michael Porter who argued, "Competitive advantage comes
from networks of activities. If the activities
were organized to reinforce the value
of each other, the network would be harder
to copy as a whole". Competitive advantage comes from entire systems of activities. Any individual activity within
the system may be copied, but competitors won't get
the same benefit unless they somehow manage to clone
the entire system. Others argue that companies
should keep mission critical functions
inside their boundaries. Those are the ones
that they must get right to survive, and to succeed. But what's mission-critical
isn't always obvious. Making computers is mission-critical for
computer companies, right? Well, not really. I mean, Dell, HP, IBM out source much
of this activity to manufacturers like Foxconn, Solastica, Flextronics or JBL. In fact, the whole industry
was created and called the electronics manufacturing
services industry. Computer companies don't
really make computers. Final assembly vehicles is mission-critical for car makers, but BMW and Mercedes
contract with Magna to do a lot
of this activity. Stanford Business professor, Susan Athey has
a persuasive argument. She says, "Some
mission-critical functions like the collection and
analysis of big data, may be just too risky to move outside
corporate boundaries, even if you don't have
unique abilities in that area." True. There may be
some functions like data analytics where relying
on a partner may be risky. Still, companies can
decide how best to deploy external resources to
build internal capability. Companies should always look
out for opportunities to use their networks to
grow and to innovate. We believe the starting point for corporate boundary decisions is to understand your industry, your competitors, and your opportunities for
profitable growth. Then, use this knowledge as a basis for your
business strategy, your competitive strategy which is all about being different. From there, blockchain opens up all kinds of new opportunities
for networking. Every manager and
knowledge worker, needs to understand and monitor these opportunities
at all times. Boundary choices are not
just for senior executives. They're for anyone who cares
about putting together the best teams for innovation
and high performance. Remember this one, one thing you can't outsource is
a corporate culture. Up next, we'll dive deeper
into the nine factors entrepreneurs should consider when making
boundary choices.