In this video, we'll look at nine questions that
you can ask yourself when you're deciding where to set the boundaries of your business at any given point in time. Company leaders have
an opportunity to see their business through the lens of the blockchain entrepreneur. This exercise will give you a 360-degree view
that will spark, I hope, eye-opening
conversations about what's truly unique and critical
in your business. Earlier, we talked about
Joe Lubin and Consensus Systems, the Ethereum Software
Development Studio that runs many bits functions on
the Ethereum blockchain. Let's review the operations of a blockchain-based enterprise, and consensus will help us here. Remember, consensus
is in its infancy. A lot can go wrong to
undermine its business such as a huge drop in
the market value of its native token called
ether that occurred, and they needed to do
a lot of reorganization, but we can still learn a lot from them and from Joe Lubin. First question companies
should ask is, are there partners who could do certain activities better? Could we benefit from
peer-to-peer production, for example, or open platforms or other blockchain business models? The company consensus is able to tap extraordinary expertise, much of it outside
of its boundaries. Second question is, what are the new economics of corporate boundaries
in any situation? What are the transaction costs of partnering versus doing
activities in-house? Can you develop a suite of smart contract templates to reduce your coordination costs? That's what consensus does. Question three, how
much of your business relies on technological
interdependence, and how much is modular? Business modules have
greater flexibility. Define these
components, and you can reconfigure them outside
corporate boundaries. Consensus sets standards
for software development, then provides access to various software modules that
its partners can build on. Question four, how
good is your firm at managing this external
or outsourced work? How good is your company
at managing networks? Can smart contracts
improve the process and lower the costs overall? Well, from the get-go, consensus was a
blockchain business, and its founder, Joe Lubin, embraces that technology.
They're good at it. Question five, is
there a risk a partner might invade fundamental parts
of your business? Some have suggested that the huge electronics
manufacturer, Foxconn, may do this to their customers, the OEM smartphone companies, and eventually start competing directly with them
selling phones. Consensus tries to reduce
this risk of partners ending up competing with you by building loyalty
through incentives. So its members share in
the wealth they create. Questions six, are there
legal, regulatory, or political obstacles to
change and to networking more? Have you cut deals
to lock you into your current structure
or location and so on? Well, that hasn't been
a problem for consensus yet. Questions seven, will
working with partners help you improve your overall
competitive advantage, your ability to create
differentiated value? Speed and pace of innovation are important
to boundary decisions. Sometimes companies have
no choice but to partner because they can't develop something fast enough in-house. A partner arrangement
can be a place holder. This is consensus strategy, build a network of collaborators around
the Ethereum platform, grow the platform
and its ecosystem, and increase the probability of success and competitive advantage for all of its components. Question eight, is there
a danger of losing control of something fundamental, say a product or
a network architecture? Business leaders need
to deeply understand the elements and links in their
value chains or networks. Which ones will be key to creating and capturing
value in the future? The company will lose
out if it forms this. The Ethereum platform is key
to the success of consensus, and so Joe Lubin and
other members of consensus are active
in its governance. He doesn't leave it to others. Finally, question nine, can you rapidly expand
your market or value proposition while at
the same time shutting out a competitor by
vertically integrating, by moving in the other direction
at least temporarily? Foxconn, the Taiwanese electronic
services manufacturer, has grown far larger than its competitors by
vertically integrating. It's a unique situation. It manufactures many of the components used in
electronics equipment, and using the profit from that, it undercuts its manufacturing
services competitors like Solastica and J. Wall. Pharmacies need to
change or else be undermined by the e-commerce onslaught of companies, in
particular Amazon. So in 2018, drug retailers, CVS, expanded its offerings to enter the health insurance industry by purchasing a large
insurance company, Aetna. Drugstore purchases
an insurance company. In this case, it made sense to vertically integrate
at least for now. But buyer beware, because
having said that, history shows that
most acquisitions fail to achieve their objectives
or they just fail. Period. Then the second era
of the Internet, acquisitions will tend to make less and less sense compared
to building networks. Overall, blockchain
technologies will introduce a new set of tools
that the heads of every function really
need to understand. That said, you can't move culture outside of
your boundaries. Change is hard, and
we've been urging corporate leaders to just start having conversations
about blockchain now.