Congratulations on
completing this module. Let's review how
blockchain technology will change the firm operation. Not just how it does business, but how it sets and where
it sets its boundaries. We looked at consensus systems, the thorium software
development studio. This is really a new model for running a business
on a blockchain. Every employee has a voice in
how the business operates. It has a decentralized
structure that makes it agile and helps
members collaborate. Smart contracts
include incentives for innovation and productivity. Most companies today are still traditional
hierarchies inefficient, and they can often
be stifling with wealth going to those at
the top of the hierarchy. The Internet did drop transaction costs outside
corporate boundaries, but these boundaries
of course remain and the architecture of the firm
is pretty much still intact. Then, companies like Google and search or Amazon
retail or Facebook, social media can really behave
like monopolies because they're so popular and credit to them for creating great
value for consumers. But users have only recently
come to understand how these big companies have been
using their personal data. Three differences
between Internet and blockchain search
make it easier for companies to find external resources
when using blockchain. First, is user anonymity with implications for recruiting
and marketing Second, is the sequencing of data with a history of all
transactions as they occurred. Third, is value, the ability to gain insights at a lower cost. Of course, there is also
an additional one that we studied in
the previous course; The cost of finding
money are lowered radically through
new crowdfunded models like ICO on a blockchain. Secondly, contracting costs
are lower on blockchain because smart contracts
are self-enforcing. Companies won't need to rely on dispute mechanisms
in the open market. Blockchain lowers
coordination costs in and outside
boundaries of firms. It can reduce agency costs
for executives learn far more than they
contribute in value. Integrity is built into
the blockchain platform, so it's easier to build
trust with outside entities. Trust is the expectation that other parties will
act with integrity. But still companies need to be strategic in determining what gives them competitive advantage, when activities should stay inside corporate boundaries
and what can be outside. If you've questions, please
visit the discussion forum. For more on how blockchain
will affect the corporation, checkout Chapter four of
Blockchain Revolution. On behalf of my
coauthor Alex Tapscott and our academic partner, [inaudible] thank
you for joining us.