In this video, we're going to take a little trip
into the future, and we'll look at some of the new and very radical
and very distributed forms of businesses that could be made possible by blockchain
technology. These types of businesses
need little or no traditional managers to create value for customers and owners. Millions of people could
collaborate inventors like these and share in their profits. The result will
distribute wealth to many instead of keeping it for the few at the top of a hierarchy. Here's how this could work. Smart contracts can go from
the simple to the complex. Simple contracts involve
few or no people and only one exchange of value. Remember the soda machine. Complex contracts call on
more people and involve many exchanges making
firms resemble networks. We call these open
networked enterprises. These open networked
enterprises are good at coordinating resources
anywhere in the world. Companies could use smart
contracts to program low-cost, self-enforcing agreements with new suppliers and partners. An automobile company could use blockchain search tools to check the trustworthiness
of a distant maker parts. Expand this scenario to include finding a supply chain partner. Needs steel from China or
rubber from Malaysia or maybe glass from Wichita,
Kansas, no problem. Decentralized online
clearing houses operating as distributed
applications for each commodity will help you book the price quality
and delivery dates with a few flexible months. You could have a detailed record
of transactions showing exactly how companies lived
up to their commitments. You could schedule
goods to show up just in time,
no warehouse required. Let's take smart contracts
as a step further. Create them as autonomous agents, make them super smart having machine learning
built into them, and pursuing our goals and making decisions on our behalf. This is where blockchain meets
artificial intelligence. Artificial intelligence
is not going to run on some massive
supercomputer centralized in the world somewhere, it will be distributed in autonomous agents
running on blockchains. So imagine a piece of software
capable of learning and adapting roaming on this
platform with its own wallet. It can purchase resources
like electricity or power or computing
processing power, while selling services
to other entities. The software is an autonomous
agent in that it can take end data from its environment and act on that data independently. The autonomous agents are more than just computer programs. They can modify how they
do their work over time. A good example of a bad autonomous agent
is a computer virus. It has a single function to copy itself from
machine to machine. Unleashing a virus on
a blockchain could be difficult. It might have to pay other
parties to interact with it, and the network would quickly
identify its public key, crash its reputation score or not validate its transactions. More complex agents can make
more complex transactions. They could acquire resources or produce value for their owner. So let's say that there's a cloud computing service renting servers from
specific providers, an autonomous agent
might figure out how to make a deal
with any provider. A more intelligent agent, an artificially
intelligent agent could upgrade its own software
adapting itself to new models like
offering to pay users for the rental of
their unused computers. It can begin to do things that it wasn't programmed to do. The next step would
be for the agent to enter new businesses
or new industries. In the future,
autonomous agents will collaborate forming all kinds
of new business models, in what we're calling a distributed
autonomous enterprise. So buckle up here. Imagine a set of
autonomous agents cooperating in a complex
blockchain based ecosystem. They could be coded according to a clear mission statement
and operating rules. People will give these agents computing power and capital. Together they'll create
a suite of services and sell those services to
other devices or to humans, or to human organizations. They'll buy what they need, hire or require resources like manufacturing or
marketing resources, could be equipment or
people or services, and they'll adapt in real time. This would be the ultimate
distributed organization. Ultimately, it could have
millions of shareholders who participated in a crowd
funding campaign to create it. The shareholders having crafted the mission statement would
vote to govern the entity, much of the day-to-day decision-making
could be programmed. In theory, this entity
could run without traditional managers or
managers of any human kind. There would be no overpaid CEO
or bloated bureaucracy. There would be no
what's called moral hazard where managers
do things that are not in the interest of the shareholders and
stakeholders of a corporation. There would be no office
politics, no red tape. Any human employees
or partners would be paid under smart contracts. Smart contracts would
run according to the best management practices. People would always know what they're supposed to be doing and have clear
performance metrics which would be transparent. The enterprise would
be able to apply customer feedback more
quickly based on logic. Shareholders would get
their share of profits based on real-time accounting
and the rules of the crowdfunding campaign. It could be
quarterly dividends or it could be hourly dividends. Now, you might say this
sounds like science fiction. It is a bit, but companies like Consensus have
already issued shares in their firms using tokens in initial coin offerings. You could legally record the ownership of
private corporations and transfer those shares to
other people on a blockchain. So imagine an initial coin offering on a massive scale with a 100 million shareholders each contributing a few pennies. Investors at the bottom of
the pyramid could own shares of a wealth creating venture
anywhere in the world. In theory, we could design a corporation without executives, just shareholders,
money, and software. Code and algorithms could replace the executive board with
shareholders in control. Now, this may not seem practical, but entrepreneurs are already writing code in languages like Solidity and Script to
perform business functions. Innovators are using code to give multi-signature
control over funds, and people are buying equity into blockchain startups through blockchain-based
crowdfunding campaigns as they're called ICOs. DABs are already giving
away two autonomous agents. The wallet for this distributed autonomous enterprise
could require thousands of shareholders sign off on important transactions. All right. This structure would have some obvious challenges. There needs to be mechanisms to quickly
achieve consensus, and we'd need
mechanisms to determine legal liability for
company actions, for someone who's contributed
10,000 of a vote. Could there be self-propagating criminal or terrorist
organizations on a block-chain? Computer scientists Andreas
Antonopoulos is in concern. He believes the network
will manage the danger and deliver enormous
benefits to society.