This is our second video on new blockchain-based
business models. We just covered four types
of distributed models, ones that are ready to
disrupt centralized ones. Here are three more. First up are what we call
the platform builders. These are business models
based on letting anyone use their technology
platforms to create value. We've used the word prosumer to describe consumers who produce. They hack products to
create something new. Blockchain technology
supercharges prosumption. What if Nike running
shoes could record data on a distributed ledger? Nike and the shoe wearer could monetize the data with
a smart contract. Let's say, a consumer
gets a tiny piece of Nike shares when she
buys a pair of sneakers. In return, she agrees to
activate the device or sync to other wearables like
a glucose level calculator. Nike gets valuable data. Companies can use the power of blockchain
programming languages and payment systems to
create open platforms, or industry members
can partner to create a blockchain utility. Think of the car of the future, is part of a blockchain-based
network of things. Various parts of the vehicle
can do transactions. Thousands of programmers and niche businesses could customize applications for your car. Open platforms could transform
entire industries like financial services by settling all kinds of
financial transactions. An alliance of big banks is
already working on that idea. Marketplaces for ideas and inventions help companies like Procter and Gamble tap into global pools of
highly skilled talent over 10 times the size of
its own workforce. Firms use services
like InnoCentive or Inno360 to find
the right temporary talent to address critical
business challenges. It's about using data to
find the right talent at the right time to hack your
business for the better. Uniquely-qualified minds, people with unique qualifications to solve problems can post their availability
to the ledger. Think of a blockchain-based
InnoCentive. Individuals could cultivate
a portable resume to provide the right information
to potential contractors, like a distributed
skills inventory owned by no one or by everyone. The hackathon is
an important form of an idea marketplace, or as I've referred
to them, Ideagoras, as every business becomes
a digital business. Every company could provide
venues for geeks and other business builders
to solve problems. Next up is animating
the physical world, making things come
alive on a blockchain. A modern aircraft has been
described as a bunch of parts flying in tight formation. That's comforting. Actually, they fly
together really well, and it's a safe mode of travel. Manufacturing-intensive
industries though can use blockchain to source, design, and build better physical goods
like that airplane. Companies in lots of
industries are tending to separate into networks of
suppliers and partners. Three-dimensional
printing will move manufacturing closer to the user, bringing new life to
mass customization. Soon, data and rights holders can store metadata about
any substance, from human cells to powdered
aluminum on a blockchain. They could expand the limits
of corporate manufacturing. The technology can also
track the origin of goods and their movement
through a supply network. Consider the food industry. Your local grocery store
may claim its beef is safe, raised humanely, fed
quality ingredients, and given no unneeded drugs, but it can't guarantee it. We trust our hamburger with
no means to verify it. Usually, it doesn't
matter, but then, there's an outbreak of E.
coli or mad cow disease. The food industry could
store a number for every steer or every cut
of meat on a blockchain. Smart database
management would allow even the largest
meat producers to guarantee quality and safety. This data would
expedite lab tests and the response to
a health crisis. We could lead the world
in developing a modern open food system with down-to-earth family farm values. Transparency lets companies with superior practices
set themselves apart. They become naked,
and you get to see whether or not they're
buff as a company. Food producers need to
have an appetite for that. Last, there are what we call the enterprise
collaborators. Commercial collaboration
tools within a business are
changing the nature of knowledge work and of
management inside organizations. Products like Jive, IBM
Connections, Microsoft Outlook, Salesforce Chatter,
Google Apps for Work are improving performance
and fostering innovation. The social software can transform business operations
from human resources and product development
to marketing, sales, and customer service. Email is yesterday's
collaborative technology. While blockchain takes
today's tools to the next level, existing vendors
should face disruption or embrace blockchain
technologies to deliver more
powerful features. Think Facebook but
for the corporation, where every user has
a multi-functional wallet and a digital ID for
the decentralized online world. The wallet stores personal and professional data and valuables, including money, but
you own and control it, not whosoever paying
you for your work. You hold your pair of
public, private keys. The system delivers a stream of valuable information like
a colleague's patch of code, a Twitter feed from
a conference you missed, a live stream of a client
using your new product, photos of your competitors'
booths at a industry expo, or help in completing
a patent application. You or your firm will
gladly pay for this stream. The benefits of this open-sourced and
blockchain model are huge. There's advertising, but you, not Facebook, get rewarded
for paying attention. That's called an
attention market. You can participate in or create discussion channels
about important topics. Enhanced privacy means
spy agencies can tell the source or
destination of a message. No social media
company can sell or leak your information
without your permission. A dissident in
a totalitarian country could speak out without fear of being tracked down
by the government. Because you own your data, you share in the wealth
of big data. Companies should be happy
about their employees using platforms like
this for business. Firms need to show
integrity and respect their employees' security and privacy to attract
the best talent. Companies are adapting into
networked organizations, taking advantage of
outside capabilities. These collaborative platforms
can help enterprises establish trust with
their external partners. So the business models that we've discussed in this module
are seven out of dozens that are emerging and 100 more
that are possible. Companies large and small can use these emerging business models to make it rain on
the blockchain. The open distributed
business models show radical potential to supercharge innovation and create
value for shareholders, customers, and
societies as a whole. In the final course
of this program, we're going to ask
you to come up with your own use cases
and business models. If you do this well, it could be one of the most important
business initiatives you've ever undertaken because it can help you
transform your company for this second era
of the Internet. If you've got
questions or comments, please go to
the discussion forum. For more on this topic, check out Chapter five of our book, Blockchain Revolution.