How are you approaching the business model
around Sweatcoin? Business model of
Sweatcoin is already functioning actually,
even without blockchain. We have a lot of our partners that bring in goods,
services and experiences, paying us for being in front of millions of our users
who are physically active, who are very interested in things that help
them to be more active. So, if your sports, health,
fitness, lifestyle, beauty brand, we have
dream audience for you. So, these brands are very keen to get at the top
of our marketplace, and we actually charge for that. So, we had several
profitable months already even without
moving into blockchain. One of the most
fascinating things about Sweatcoin that I've encountered being
into the blockchain and cryptocurrency space is, if you talk to laymen
about other cryptos, the most difficult
question to answer is, why does it have
any value at all? The string of numbers, why would anyone pay for it? Now, with Sweatcoin, we never ever entered into
this conversation, because if Sweatcoin
is backed by my steps, of course it has value. The only question people
ask is, how much? If you think about it, we have created
this digital asset and we think of it as a currency. If we move it onto exchange, then we can truly
create a measure of the value of physical
activity to the world, to different countries,
to different entities. You as insurer will be able to buy Sweatcoins of
your policyholders, therefore encouraging them to
be more physically active, and they benefit as well as you because
you are effectively creating and motivating behavior that makes people live longer, be more productive, be healthier. If you're a state, you would be able
to basically take those Sweatcoins as part of tax payment, also
using exchanges. So, by making it tradable, going onto exchanges and
making it freely available, we will create
the secondary market where anyone and everyone that can benefit from making society
more physically active, healthier, happier,
more productive will be able to participate in
the economy of movement.