[MUSIC] >> Tell me some more about
your business model, and really how tactically you're
looking to build liquidity. >> So in terms of our business model,
we thought about it like this. We're taking major technological risk
in terms of building a business on new technology. Let's not take other risks in
other part of the business. And so other exchanges have been quite
successful in their business model. And so
we've decided to not be innovative yet, but rather duplicate what's been
successful in terms of business model. And so what we have done is we take
a percentage fee on every transaction. That connecting a buyer and seller,
we take a percentage fee on that. And so our business model is
based on increasing revenue, we take percentage on
all those transactions. Now, how do we get volume to
the exchange is our biggest challenge. And so what we're working on is
different viral marketing strategies. So for example, referral programs
have proved to be very successful. And so centralized exchanges,
the regular exchanges that exist, have been quite successfully
in doing referral programs. So now what we've done is,
we've developed into our smart contracts referral programs,
so it's in the code. So basically,
if I refer someone to the exchange and they trade, in the collated portion
of their fees, will come to me. And so this is all programmable. And so that's one way that we're
trying to get viral marketing. And the other thing is
there's a lot more value for the later users than the earlier users. And so things that we're thinking of is,
if you're an early user, an early adopter,
let's give give you free fees for life. And so we're effectively
incentivizing you to come on now and believe in the exchange
now before it has volume. And then if the exchange reaches the scale
which we believe it can, you will have now a very valuable asset, because you'll
never pay fees on trading on our exchange. And so we're kind of thinking of ideas
like this to create virality, and to help bootstrap liquidity
in the early days. >> A bit curious about how you
compare to other exchanges. So you talked about how
the use of blockchain should give you a security advantage. How great is that? How salient is it for users? And also do you have cost advantages
from your technology choice? >> If I had to compare ourselves
to the current exchanges, so 99% of the cryptocurrency trading volumes
goes through centralized exchanges, exchanges that hold
the custody of your tokens. Now, if I had to compare
our technology to this, I would say we are ten times more
secure than those exchanges. Some of the drawbacks we have is in terms
of variable costs, or costs per trade. We have to pay the blockchain network for
every transaction. So we have a variable cost for
every transaction. Whereas when they do a trade, they update their database,
which doesn't have any cost. So we've actually got a downside
in terms of variable cost. But we're 10x more secure. Now, we are not the first exchange
to have this noncustodial model. But what we are is the fastest
noncustodial exchange. So the other noncustodial exchanges
have provided as well 10x more security. But where their struggle is in creating
a user experience which is similar to the exchanges that exist,
specifically in speed. And so what we've managed to achieve
is an innovative way to create fast and spontaneous transactions, the same as
you would have on a regular exchange, with the 10x more security. So those are the positives. Currently, the challenges that
we have is higher variable cost. And the user experience is
slightly more challenging than a normal,
current centralized exchange. And the reason for that is because you
as the user need to have a wallet, and that's kind of a friction point. You need to be your own bank. You need to store your own cryptocurrency. And that's kind of an education point that
we need to go through with the market. Because most people actually don't
custody, and don't hold their own tokens, and actually hold their tokens
on cryptocurrency exchanges.