This is the first of two videos on Blockchain-based
business models. We think distributed models will disrupt centralized ones. Why? Well, because
they innovate better, they create value at lower cost, and producers can
share in the wealth. Here are four examples. The first is the
blockchain cooperative. It's formed by people coming together to meet common needs. Most of the so-called sharing economy
companies like Uber, Airbnb and so on, are really large scale service aggregators and distributors. They aggregate services and
they round up suppliers with excess capacity on
a centralized platform. Could be cars, lawn equipment, vacant rooms, handyman skills. Then they resell them
collecting fees, and creating valuable data about both sides of the exchange, the suppliers and the consumers. Airbnb competes with hotels, Lyft and Uber compete with
taxis and limousines. Zipcar with its hourly rates
compete up with rental car companies that was purchased by
one of them, Avis. These companies have
globalized the selling of what used to be
local small businesses. They've monetized everything from spare bedrooms and family cars, to underemployed talent and people without full-time jobs. But blockchain technology
can displace some of the matching and
accounting functions performed by platforms like Uber. So, get ready for
blockchain Airbnb, BAirbnb or blockchain Uber, call that one SUber or
Blockchain Task Rubber. This is an opportunity to
create a true sharing economy, where individuals and
organizations work together as a cooperative and receive most of the value
that they create. The second business model is for creators of
intellectual property. There are a lot of people
in our economy that create value and aren't
fairly compensated for it. Writers, musicians, artists,
scientists, engineers. Other creators often
don't get paid fairly. Publishers, record labels,
art galleries, universities, and corporations have acquired these inventors to sign away their intellectual
property rights as part of their employment deal. Blockchain can help. Consider the appraisal
of fine art. The annual art market
is worth $67 billion. It's a business
controlled largely by expert middlemen with access
to restricted databases. Finding who owns the art, where it's stored, and in what condition it is, isn't easy. The Bitcoin based startup, Verisart is creating
a public database of art and collectibles. Its goal is to serve
artists and collectors, as well as curators, historians, art appraisers,
art insurers and so on. With Verisart, we
can record and track the provenance of any physical
or digital work of art. Users can use their mobile device to check works authenticity, its condition, its
chain of custody. Verisart founder, Robert Norton, believes the art world
will embrace this decentralized model
and a decentralized ledger. The third model is
peer-to-peer production. Peer producers brought us open source software
and Wikipedia. Out forming those are the biggest best
finance corporations. I wrote an entire book about this called 'Wikinomics' with my co-author Anthony
Williams, back in 2007. Community members take part for fun to network or because
of their beliefs. Blockchain technology can improve their efficiency and reward them for the value they create through incentives and
reputation systems. So, think of Linux. Nobody owns it but it's the world's most important
operating system today. The Wikimedia foundation
owns Wikipedia. The Mozilla foundation owns
the Firefox web browser. They're now experimenting
with blockchain technology. Peer production can also occur in the purely
private sector. Sometimes a corporation
acts as a curator. Readers create the content on the Reddit discussion platform but they don't own the site. It's now one of
the top ten websites in the United States in
terms of traffic. Companies can also tap into
vast pools of external labor. So, IBM embraced
the Linux community donating hundreds of millions of dollars worth of software. Why would they do that? Well, they save $900 million a year developing their own
proprietary operating systems. IBM also got a platform
on which it built a multi-billion dollar
services business as well. Sustaining volunteer
communities long-term can be challenging though. There's no economic incentive
for good behavior. Incompetence and sabotage can
cause problems, and trolls, post inflammatory, incorrect or off-topic messages
sowing discord. Blockchain technology discourages bad behavior in
these communities. Peers develop reputations
for valuable contributions. Members can ante up
a small amount of money and see it increase
or decrease based on their contributions
because we have a transactional platform
for that occur. Peers could share in the values
that they create for corporate-owned
communities getting paid through smart contracts. Consider Reddit,
the community won't accept centralized control
but it suffers from rude, uncivil members. Any of you who've been on Reddit know what I'm talking about. Well, Reddit could benefit
from moving to a model where great contributors
are rewarded and bad behavior is
penalized economically. Consensus is already working on a blockchain
alternative to Reddit. The Consensus team thinks financial incentives can improve the quality of
conversation without centralized control
or censorship. The fourth model is based
on metering of asset usage. This is a different take
on the sharing economy. Renting our excess capacity for all kinds of things on
the Internet of Things. Renting things like
WiFi hot spots, computing processing power, storage capacity,
extra mobile minutes, or our remaining battery charge. Your WiFi can run itself
out in your absence charging fractions of pennies
for every second of usage. Your energy sources can become sources of income
metering their use and charging the user for
it through micro-payments. All you need is
a decentralized protocol for them to transact
safely and securely. You decide how much access to allow and what to charge
for those rights. Blockchain will meter
time and energy usage and manage payments and
transactions in real-time. Owners can pool
their resources and then track will stands
by their commitments, and those who don't will lower their reputation score
and could even lose access if they
don't do better.