In this video, we'll take a closer look at Distributed
Applications or DApps. Dapps represent a new era in the digital revolution with promise for distributing wealth. Let's look at how a home sharing DApp could work on
the blockchain. Airbnb was founded a month before the stock market crashed in 2008. Since then, it's become
a $31 billion platform, now the world's largest supplier of rooms measured
by market share, value in rooms occupied. But the people who provide the rooms get just part
of the value they create. Western Union processes,
international payments taking $10 for every transaction plus big foreign
exchange off the top. Settlements take a long time. Airbnb stores in profits
off of all of the data, and both owners and consumers have concerns
about privacy. Companies like Airbnb are part of the so-called sharing economy. But Airbnb is not really
successful because it shares, rather it is successful
because it does not share. It aggregates
excess capacity through a centralized platform and resells it at a profit
pocketing fees. But more importantly, owning
the platform outright. If you rent out
a spare room in your home, you don't become an owner
of Airbnb, right? Now, imagine a competitor to Airbnb but on the blockchain. We brainstormed with blockchain expert Dino Mark
Angaritis to design one. We called it bAirbnb. It would look more like a member owned cooperative than accompany. All revenues except overhead
would go to its members. They would control the platform and they would make decisions. bAirbnb is a distributed
application. A DApp. A set of smart contracts on
a home sharing blockchain. The bAirbnb app hasn't
elegant interface. Owners can upload information and pictures of their property. The platform keeps
reputation scores of owners and renters to improve
everyone's business decisions. So, you're looking to rent, the bAirbnb software
filters the listing meeting your criteria say 10 miles
from the Eiffel Tower, two bedrooms and a
four plus star rater. Your user experience is
identical to what you would get in Airbnb or
at least very similar, except you communicate
peer-to-peer on this network through
encrypted messages, not stored in Airbnb's database. You and the room owner are the only two people who
can read these messages, and you can swap phone numbers and complete
that exchange privately. You and the owner could complete the transaction
entirely off chain, but there are several advantages
to doing it on chain. First, is reputation. The network records the
transaction on the blockchain. A positive review improves
each user's reputation. The risk of a negative review motivates hosts and
guests to be honest. People with good
reputations can benefit from the same persona
across multiple DApps. It doesn't have to be isolated
to just one function. Second, is identity verification. We're not dealing with
a centralized system to check ID for us. So hosts and guests
need a weigh to confirm each other's
real-world identity. The blockchain calls
up a contract from a verify ID application to verify each party's
public key or persona. Third, is privacy protection. Verify ID doesn't store
all transactions in a database. It's simply returns a true or false to verification requests. Different kinds of DApps
can use this verify ID. But verify ID never knows
transaction details. This separation of
the identity layer from the transaction layer greatly
improves your privacy. Fourth, is risk reduction. On Airbnb, customers'
identities and financial data are stored
on centralized servers. These can be hacked and leaked, exposing owners to liabilities. But there's no central database to hack on the blockchain. There are only individual
peer-to-peer transactions. Fifth, is insurance. Airbnb offers one million dollar million
worth of insurance for owners and compensates them for theft and damage
if necessary. On bAirbnb, owners can get
the bAirbnb insurance DApp. Renters with good reputations get lower rates and don't have to subsidize renters with
a negative history. Here's how this could work. You submit a booking requests and bAirbnb sends your public key to the insurance
contract for a quote. The insurance DApp contacts list
of trusted providers. Insurers perform
their own calculations in real-time through
an autonomous agent. This will consider inputs to the contract like the market
value of the owner's house, how much the owner wants insured, owner and rent or reputations
and the rental price. bAirbnb takes the best bid and adds it to
the owners nightly feed. The blockchain processes this calculation
in the background. Owners and renters have a user experience
comparable to Airbnb, but with a better value exchange. Sixth, is payments. Funds are transferred to
the owner in seconds, whereas on Airbnb
it would take days. Owners can also manage security deposits better
with smart contracts. Some parties use Escrow accounts to release payments nightly, weekly, hourly or in full
as the parties agreed. Parties can call for arbitration even in cases of dispute. Seventh, is secure
access to property. A Smart Lock connected to the blockchain knows
when you've paid. Your near-field communication
enabled smartphone can sign a message with
your private key as proof of payment
when you arrive, and the Smart Lock
will open for you. Owners don't need to
drop off keys or visit the property unless
they want to say hello or maybe address
some emergency. You and the owner have now
saved most of the fees. Settlements are
assured and instant. There are no foreign
exchange fees for international contracts. You don't have to worry
about stolen identity. Local governments and
oppressive regimes can't subpoena bAirbnb for
its rental history data. This is the real sharing
and value economy. Both customers and service
providers are the winners.