Welcome back. In this video, we look at distributed
applications, or DApps. DApps represent a new era in the digital revolution with promise for distributing wealth. But before we get to that, let's look at how
the digital landscape has evolved into a centralized
power structure. Then, we'll look at how
Blockchain Technology makes decentralization possible. Centralized
organizations have held concentrated computing
power for a long time. All software applications
or apps ran on their owner's computers
in the first decades of the Enterprise
Computing, Citibank, General Motors, US
Steel, Unilever, and the US federal government, owned huge data centers
running proprietary software. Certain companies did rent or timeshare computer power from providers like
the 1980's giant CompuServe to run their own applications. The software markets
specialized as the personal computer
or PC matured. Some focused on developing
client apps for the PC. Some focused on server apps
for the host computer. Widespread adoption of
the internet allowed individuals and companies to use their computers to
share information. First, it was text documents,
and later images, multimedia contact like videos
and software applications. Sharing began to democratize
the information landscape, but it was short-lived. A new type of timesharing
appeared in the 1990s, first called virtual
private networks, or VPNs, and then
cloud computing. Cloud computing let users
and companies store and process their software and data in third party data centers. New technology companies like Salesforce.com made
fortunes by using the cloud model to save customers the big costs of developing and running
their own software. Cloud services providers
like Amazon and IBM built huge multi-billion
dollar businesses. Next, social media companies
like Facebook and Google created services in the 2000 running on
their own vast data center. Companies like Apple moved
away from the worldwide webs open architecture to
exclusive walled gardens, like the Apple store. So the trend of centralized
computing continued. Large companies keep
the applications they've created,
processed, owned, or acquired on
their own large systems, but there are red flags created by the centralized structure. Single points of control
make companies and their customers vulnerable
to catastrophic crashes, fraud, and security breaches. Customers of target,
eBay, JPMorgan Chase, Home Depot, Uber and others all have felt
the pain of identity theft. Systems of different parts
of a company still have big challenges
communicating with one another, let alone with systems
outside the firm. For us users, it means we've
never really had control, other people and companies define the services
that we use and sometimes they're
implicit values and goals are in conflict
with our own. Other people own
the valuable data we generate, and they're using it to build vast fortunes perhaps
the greatest in history. Most of us get little benefit or compensation for
handing over our data. Central Powers use it to sell
us stuff or to spy on us. Then along came blockchain
and distributed applications. Now, anyone can upload a program onto the
blockchain and leave it to self execute with
the strong guarantee that the program will continue
to perform securely. This platform is public not inside an organization
and it contains a growing set of resources like digital money to reward and
promote certain behavior. We're moving into a new stage
of the digital age where we can program and share
distributed software. A distributed application, or DApp runs across
many computing devices, not on a single server. All the computing
resources running a particular blockchain
make up a computer. Blockchain developer Gavin Wood
makes this point too in describing the
Ethereum blockchain as a platform for processor. He said, "There is only one a theorem
computer in the world. It's multi-user. Anyone whoever uses it is
automatically signed in." Ethereum is distributed
and built to the highest standards
of Crypto security. So no one can ever
messed with the data. Critical rules are built into the computer to
protect its integrity. BitTorrent, the peer-to-peer
file sharing app came along even
before blockchain, but its distributed nature
shows the potential of DApps. At one point, it consumed over five percent of
all internet traffic. Lovers of music, film and
other media use it to share their files for free with no central server for
authorities to shut down. The programmer in
creator Bram Cohen who developed BitTorrent said this, "The revolution will
not be monetized. " But we think generating
revenue and economic value through technological innovation
can be a good thing. What matters is making sure that revolution is not
monetized by the few. Blockchain technology
makes the possibilities for DApps basically unlimited, DApps are a new level
of digital evolution. Here's just one example. The company's Storj provides a distributed cloud Storj
platform in a suite of DApps. It lets users store data cheaply, securely, and privately. No centralized authority has access to a user's
encrypted data. Storj eliminates the high costs of centralized
storage facilities. It's super-fast. It pays users for renting their extra disk space and
its censorship resistant. No single company
can prevent you from accessing what is yours by right. It's like Airbnb for your
computer spare memory space, allowing you to monetize
latent capacity for profit.