In this video, we'll look at some of the strategic approaches to managing intellectual property in the blockchain ecosystem. There are pros and cons between patenting and not patenting. The US Constitution gives inventor's exclusive rights to their discoveries to
promote progress. Startups have limited resources, patent protection blocks
larger corporations from copying their innovations, and then putting those startups
out of business. But obtaining patents is expensive and can be speculative. Software innovation changes fast. A brilliant invention
might soon be obsolete. There is a more
communal approach. Innovators can share
their innovations and replace the time and
energy spent filing patent applications
with increased effort at research, and development. The community would contribute to a database of filed patent
applications. Anyone can check to see what's been published in a given field to avoid directing resources
at the same subject matter. The US Patent and
Trademark Office waits 18 months to
publish applications. Companies could join within the community to share
applications much sooner. Contributors might lose
some strategic advantage, but the overall ecosystem could benefit by not
duplicating efforts. Patent pools are a mechanism for sharing issued patents to
advance the overall industry. Individuals can choose to dedicate their patents
to the public. Companies can assign patents to a trusted entity with
a policy of non-enforcement. Patent pools can provide
competitive benefits, and reduce transaction costs, sometimes clearing blocking
patents from the market. Companies can cut
their litigation costs. Here's how something
like this would work. Companies will pool patents
in a particular technology, then purchase a license
to the pool usually at a discount from what would be negotiated for
individual patents. But patent pools can
also impede competition, conferring market power
upon a group. Anti-trust concerns
could also arise. Some patent pools are created
for defensive purposes. Each member firm pays yearly dues depending
on the revenues. The defensive patent
pool seeks to buy patents relating to
its members' businesses. Innovators are compensated, patents are taken off the market, and members get a license
to the purchase patents. These mechanisms could be significant for the
blockchain ecosystem. Blockchain essential patents
are foundational. Any blockchain company
would infringe them. What if Satoshi Nakamoto
had filed for and been issued a patent for
the basic concept of Bitcoin, and thus the blockchain? It would be broad enough
to encompass pretty much any application in the various blockchain
business models, stifling innovation. We could set up a pool of essential blockchain patents with volunteers managing the process. The entity could function
like the RPX Corporation. Members of the company pay dues, the company then buys patents or patent portfolios making them
royalty free for members. Guidelines would
define what makes a patent essential in
the blockchain space. The evaluation would determine who required a license
to the same patent. Stakeholders could receive
value for participating in the evaluation process with
credits on their yearly dues. The amount wouldn't depend on whether a patent is
a essential or not. So an evaluator wouldn't feel pressure to inflate
a patent's potential. Incentives could also
go to individuals who volunteer to submit their patents to the essential
patent blockchain. An open process
could give companies a valuable view of
the competitive landscape. There are drawbacks when
individual companies invest in invention but
received no compensation. The proposed essential
blockchain patent pool would use the best practices
from earlier patent pools. Owners of patents deemed
essential would be paid fairly. It seems logical to use innovative technology to
advance our technology law. Using a blockchain
for patent pools help streamline licensing,
negotiation, and enforcement. Automated review systems
become more feasible. High-fidelity tracking
of changes is built-in, and it provides a testing bed
for non-blockchain industries to move their pools
to a blockchain system. But participation is
crucial to ensure success of the blockchain
essential patent pool. Voluntary communal
coordination can also take place off blockchain. Individual companies don't have to share intellectual property, but community members could provide incentives for sharing. Companies could follow
policies protecting some of their core intellectual property
without being selfish. This approach would
start with education. Industry leaders could
agree upon a framework of suggested policies to share
throughout the industry. Companies could be
encouraged to publish open source blocking
patents to the community. So blockchain-based
technologies, and non-competing businesses
wouldn't be blocked. Narrower patents confined to a vertical space will still protect
the company's interests. This policy could take
advantage of the first to file system from the 2011
America Invents Act. Just publishing
a document describing an invention prevents others from patenting the technology. Let's say the Acme
innovation company discovers a way to prevent hacking better than
existing technologies. This would likely apply across
the blockchain industry. Acme could publish
the discovery on its website or through a service run by the Chamber Of Digital
Commerce, for example. No patent troll could attempt to monopolize the discovery. Voluntary publication
already happens to some degree in the
blockchain space. GitHub has thousands of
blockchain related repositories. Not every repository
holds innovative code, but the sheer volume indicates immense interest
in the technology. The community would need to urge companies holding
blockchain patents to make them unenforceable or agree to offer
royalty free licenses. This would align with the
motivations of companies using patents mainly to defend
against patent trolls. If you've got questions, please go to
the discussion forum. For more on this topic, checkout Tom Isaacson's work
in the suggested readings.