[MUSIC] In this video we'll explore how blockchain
could transform the management of intellectual property rights. From attributions and payments,
to licensing and the management of rights. Collecting royalties could be fast and
transparent on the blockchain. Existing royalty systems are slow and inefficient with periodic
payouts each year, if at that. Imagine royalty payments
using cryptocurrencies. Those could happen in minutes or seconds, whenever people downloaded
a song or used it in their commercial. Or played it on the radio, or streamed it on Spotify,or bought ads
around the music video on YouTube. Smart contracts could track these
different uses of a song and meter out royalties to the artists and to other
stakeholders, all without human agents. That's the future on royalty
payments on the blockchain. Consider sampling, when one artist repurposes part of
another artist's sound recording. Current systems can't track
sampling with precision, but Internet delivery of content makes
at least precise tracking possible. The current system is still opaque. Blockchain-based registries can be as
transparent as their users desire. Selective transparency
could let artists and their managers see whether their
payments were being processed properly. Some pundits predict the end of
intermediaries, like collection societies, ASCAP and BMI, this monitor
public performances of music and collect royalties on
behalf of their members. They also handle blanket licensing of
members works to third parties, like, say radio stations. We think these traditional clearing
houses will need to adapt to stay viable, maybe serving as auditors of meta data,
maybe even tokenizing that meta data. There's still lots for them to do if they
take the leadership role in doing it. A distributed database
built on blockchain for the creative industries would help artists
register and protect their rights. Copyright is automatic
upon creation of a work. But the current registration
process can be costly and involve multiple jurisdictions. Blockchain platforms make
global registration easier. An artist registers a work
by uploading a digital file. The platform generates
a hash of that file. Now, as we have discussed previously, a hash is a unique alphanumerical
digest of the content. It serves as an identifier,
like a digital fingerprint. It could be used for money like bitcoin. Or it could be used in this case for
a song or a piece of art. The creator secures attribution and
timestamps possession of a file. That could be critical in
a dispute over authorship. Now, this global registry of
intellectual property could replace the separate redundant and
sometimes inconsistent and even outdated silos of
metadata that we have today. This registry would be available
to anyone anywhere and scalable to billion of creative works. It would help creators get paid and help audiences fund the content
that they wanted to consume. Streaming content would really mean
streaming payments to artists. Intermediaries could focus on helping
audiences discover creative works instead of dealing with paperwork. This distributive database would also help
creators license their works with ease. The complexity of licensing is still
a barrier to user-generated content. The average YouTuber doesn't know
how to go about licensing a song for a fan-made video. Digital certificates registered on a
blockchain could store data on the rights status of a work, including conditions for
use and for re-use. This data could unlock new
revenue streams for creators. Let's change our tune a bit here and
turn to gaming, where digital goods can be worth a lot. Virtual swords and armor change hands
between gamers for large sums, but the digital assets
are worthless if the game or the company that creates
the game becomes obsolete. Digital goods could keep their
value on the block chain. Spells of Genesis is a trading card game. Its storyline and mechanics
are based on blockchain technology. The cards are based on counterparty, a platform using the BitCoin
blockchain to issue custom tokens. The gaming company ClanPlay is also
doing this built on the AEON protocol. Players of Spells of Genesis can trade
their cards using the Book of Orbs. ORB stands for
Ownership Revolution on the Blockchain. The cards and other rare in-game
assets trade for thousands of dollars. The game Force of Will also
offers game interoperability, players can use some assets
in Spells Of Genesis. This field is growing very fast. MobileGo tokens let gamers trade virtual
items on the Ethereum blockchain, for example, and there are many other. Ease of licensing is important
in the world of digital design. Think of the content creator searching for
an image to use in a presentation. Or libraries in museums wishing to
declare a work in the public domain within a certain jurisdiction. The Monegraph platform helps artists and photographers license their content for
commercial and editorial use. Monegraph sees digital art
work as a tradable asset. And trading digital assets with blockchain
technology allows for perfect provenance. Every transaction related to a registered
work is recorded on this ledger. Off blockchain sales would be possible,
but unlikely, since breaking the chain of provenance
would reduce the work's value. That's the future of creative
industries on the blockchain.