This far, we've
touched on blockchains potential for managing
intellectual property, royalty payments, and licensing. In this section, we explore its impact on
creative collaboration. The blockchain could automate resale royalties and
event ticketing. It could transform how
organizations monetize fund data and create a more inclusive model
for writes data. The technology could even
help creators to find new sources of capital and new models of
distributed ownership. The blockchain makes
decentralized collaboration possible for groups
on a large scale. One crucial feature of blockchain
is the ability to align the incentives of people who don't know or even
trust each other. An early example of this
potential was the Cypherfunks, musicians who are distributed
around the globe. The group used cryptocurrency to share ownership of
the music they created. This works on a more
sophisticated level two. We can imagine thousands
of people everywhere in the world collaborating on
a blockchain based Wikipedia. Indeed, there's
already an example of this called Everipedia. Backfeed is the name of an initiative
launched to encourage massive open-source
collaboration among a network of peers. It operates free of
centralized control. Peers can use Back feed to evaluate contributions
to a group project. Individual contributors
receive rewards according to the perceived
value of their work. It's a new form of commons-based peer production
on the blockchain. Back feed uses
cryptographic consensus to solve the challenges of
large-scale cooperation, but it keeps the benefits of
commons style governance. All-new forms of
distributed autonomous art could be born on the blockchain. Here's a fun one, the Plantoid Project
which is also based on decentralized collaboration,
but with a twist. Blockchain scholar, Primavera
De Filippi came up with the concept and planted the seeds so to speak
for the project. Plantoid governance
structure runs on the Ethereum blockchain. De Filippi called the
Plantoid an artistic representation of
a blockchain based life form. Its real-world body is a mechanical sculpture of a plant connected
to the internet. It's Operating System
is a smart contract. The Plantoid collects
Bitcoin donations and responds with
some form of appreciation. It might play a song, display a light show or
perform a mechanical dance. It is actually fundraising
for other projects. The smart contract has a targeted amount of
Bitcoin to reach. When it reaches that amount, it issues a request
for proposals for creating the next
generation of Plantoid. Donors vote on the various
proposals and Plantoid hires the artist whose
submission receives the most votes to
create an offspring. Let me put it another way, the Plantoid is
a self-propagating artwork acting as an artist, art dealer, and agent. It achieves its own
financial autonomy. It's the first instance of
distributed autonomous art. This opens up a new set of
possibilities for funding, commissioning, and making
money from works of art. Ultimately, that's
good for artists.