How do you approach protecting the IP in your
blockchain solution? So there's two ways
of approaching that. The first way is to
say that some of the technological innovations
that we develop natively, we acquire IP about it, and then we make sure that
no one else is able to use it. So, it's not so much that we
tried to keep people out, it's more that we make
sure that other people cannot keep us out for
something that we did. I think the second and more
interesting idea is that initially what we're trying
to build as a company is to develop a protocol level system. So, as opposed to building
a very specific application, we're trying to build
an underlying system that allows other people to build
applications on top of it. The bet is that once we develop this underlying system,
we then open sources, meaning anyone can copy it
almost for free by just the clicking a button on GitHub, and they have the entire system. The entire technological
expertise and the entire output is basically hosted and freely
available for anybody. So, how is it that
we still make money? The way that typically
intelligent investors is that, as an organization we
develop a protocol that's going to put the
organization out of business. But the organization
is going to have to repurpose itself to then provide services on top
of this underlying protocol. The reason why this
is important is because these
underlying protocols are systems very often
benefit from network effects. So, you yourself, if you try
to keep other people out, are very unlikely to succeed. You need many, many
other people to join you because
the more people join you, the more exponentially
stronger the network gets. Because you were
the one who develop this protocol in the UK
in the first place, and because you have
some goodwill for developing it, and because you've
essentially been working continuously to provide additional services on
top of this protocol, the bet is that people are going to use this protocol with you to extract these additional
premium services as opposed to
just a free services of keyless case just login into the crypton blockchain
technology walls.