We've reached the end
of our module on new business models. You've learned
how smart contracts can do tasks ranging from the simple to the complex with
little human involvement. They can act as what
we call autonomous agents on behalf of whoever
set them in motion. They have potential to form a distributed
autonomous enterprise, co-operating a complex
blockchain-based ecosystems. But they need
some human governance, as we saw in the case
of the DAO or D-A-O. Distributed applications run
across a network of devices forming open network
enterprises for creating value. We also learned about
seven types of business models. First was the blockchain
co-operative, like a blockchain-
based Airbnb or Uber, where people pool their resources and share all of
the value created. Second, was for intellectual
property management, where startups like VeriSat help creators manage their copyrights, trademarks, and patents
on the blockchain. Third was peer production. Blockchain-based versions
of platforms like Linux or Reddit except everyone is rewarded for the value
they create, and docked for bad behavior. Fourth, was micro metering, where people can rent
out their Wi-Fi hotspot, excess electricity,
computer processing power, and other assets when
they're not in use. Fifth, was the platform building. Creating open source platforms for others to use
and to build upon. Six was the making of
things on the blockchain. Coordinating capital, talent, and assets to manufacture goods and deliver services from design right through
to final usage. Last was enterprise
collaboration, where we can expect the rise of new collaborative platforms for use within and
between enterprises. These sets of applications and tools will be very
different from those of today because they'll
be based on an employee owned sovereign identity
and powered by blockchain. Blockchain technology
distributes ownership, supporting new forms
of collaboration, and free of centralized control. So if you've got questions, please post them on
the discussion forum, and for a review of these topics, please read Chapter 5 of
our book Blockchain Revolution. On behalf of my co-author,
Alex Tapscott, and our academic partner in
[inaudible] thank you for joining us