The first Bitcoin was mined in 2009. Cryptocurrency remained relatively unknown for several years after that, but in the last few has exploded with interest and popularity. With many different kinds of cryptocurrencies, coins, and tokens entering the market. But what exactly are all these things and how do they have value? It's worth considering how strange the concept of value is? We take it for granted that a dollar is worth a dollar but why does it have the value it has? Over time people have used all kinds of things to denote value. Roman soldiers were paid in salt. In the Middle Ages peppercorns were unacceptable form of currency. Gold became well, the gold standard. What these all had in common was that they were uncommon. Value is tied to scarcity which makes sense. The most valuable baseball cards or stamps are the rare ones. Many of those old forms of currency were also practically valuable. Salt could be used to preserve food, peppercorns could season food, and gold could be used in dental work or as a flexible decorative metal. But when you consider that most of these currencies didn't get used for those purposes, you realize that their value has more to do with something else and that something else is agreement. We collectively agree that something has value and that something could be well anything. So there's nothing weird about paper dollar bills, they aren't useful in other ways they're just scarce, hard to reproduce, and we all agree that they have value. Decentralized cryptocurrencies were born when technology enabled electronic currency to have the same properties as physical currency. The difficulty of mining made at rare. The network properties and consensus mechanisms made it reliable, and public-key cryptography and signing allowed for ownership transfer and tradeability. We should talk about some of the differences between cryptocurrencies, coins, and tokens. A currency is something exchangeable that holds value intrinsically. Not all block chains have an associated currency. Bitcoin and Ethereum do and prospectively they're called Bitcoin and Ether. Because of their intrinsic value, these are sometimes called intrinsic tokens. But to keep things clear, we'll refer to these intrinsic tokens as coins. There is some mixing of language used here, but generally a coin or intrinsic token is different from what's called an extrinsic token or usually just a token. A coin is a unit of cryptocurrency associated with a given blockchain network. A token is usually more like a share in a company, it's tradable, sellable, you own it, but it can also be seen as a proof of an ownership stake in something and that thing is what has value. So, the value of the token is extrinsic to it and that is in contrast to the value intrinsic to a coin. On a blockchain tokens are covered in the same way as coins, but it's an important distinction to make. For example, on the Ethereum blockchain, you might buy tokens with your Ether, but you wouldn't buy Ether with your tokens, you would sell your tokens for Ether. Tokens can be created arbitrarily on the Ethereum network. If you have a project, you could invent a token and sell it to fund raise. The value of your token is associated to whatever is behind it, whatever it represents. The concept of electronic money isn't entirely new, air miles, and reward points are a fully electronic currency, but the difference is, well, think of how hard it would be for you to create your own air miles. Think of the systems you need to build to manage it, and how many people you'd need to support it. With a supporting blockchain like Ethereum, all this is just there. If you knew what you were doing, you could create your own token in just hours, with the entire block chain back-end giving you or anyone everything you need for your token to be ownable, buyable, transferable, and secure, that ability is unprecedented. To give one example of what tokens can do, we can look at Meridio. Meridio is a project on the Ethereum blockchain that is interested in disrupting a real estate investment by allowing owners to easily buy and sell shares of properties. With their system, a new property gets his own set of tokens and investors can buy those tokens which represent their ownership stake. They're able to on the open market, buy more of these tokens if they're available, or sell some, or all of their tokens and do so easily, and to anyone who's interested, and do so nearly instantly. Compare that to how real estate transactions work today, lawyers, legal fees, ownership disputes, and the other complexities and costs associated with centralized and intermediated processes. The possibilities of tokenized ownership are one of the potentially revolutionary aspects of blockchain technology. One of the most popular uses for tokens is to hold an ICO or initial coin offerings. Again, coins and tokens are often used interchangeably. An ICO is like a crypto version of an IPO or initial public offering. In an IPO, accompany offers ownership shares to the public in order to raise money. The ICO is the same, it's a way for projects to get funded in exchange for shares of ownership. IPOs are currently very well regulated, whereas ICOs are much more in a wild west stage. There is a lot of promise here, but there is also some risk. ICOs are pretty new. The ICO is also a process by which new cryptocurrencies can be introduced to the public. Instead of selling an ownership stake in something else, it's an offer to buy a new currency, with the hope that the associated blockchain will grow in popularity, making that currency more valuable. This would be most similar to buying foreign currency and hoping that the issuing country's economy strengthens. An investor would in either ICO case, hope that the value increases over time, so that they could sell their shares or coins for profit. Organizations have raised billions of dollars through ICOs, with file coin being the biggest so far, raising over $250 million with its ICO in November of 2017. This is a new and emerging industry. So, now you know what coins and tokens are, but if there are no bank accounts on the block chain, where do you actually keep them? Next, we'll look at wallets, exchanges, and transactions.