[MUSIC] Now that we've had a look at dapps, we can
see blockchains generally as platforms on which other things can be built. As not all platforms have virtual
machines like Ethereum does, they don't all have the same features. As platforms, each blockchain
has their own pros and cons. Depending on what exactly you want to do, a different one may
better meet your needs. Beyond pros and cons, the size, health, and future prospects of
a network are important considerations. If you are considering building a dapp, or investing in a blockchain solution, it's
worth considering the level of support and the size of the developer community
behind a given blockchain. Or you might want to make your
own blockchain entirely to fit a specific niche. An example of that is Ripple, a blockchain
created exclusively to transfer large amounts of value between large financial
institutions cheaply and quickly. Hyperledger is a project that isn't
itself a single blockchain, but rather is a suite of several
blockchain frameworks and tools. It's designed more for
creation of custom blockchains for specific industry applications and
the focus is on permissioned or consortium blockchains, which are a hybrid
of private and public blockchain models. This can be contrasted with Ethereum,
which is a specific blockchain implementation, but one whose software can
easily be re-purposed as a permissioned or private block chain. It also has the EVM, so
you can build on top of that. Indeed, during production, developers make
heavy use of private blockchain instances in their own computers and testnets, which
let them test their smart contract-based systems out in more
real-world environments. The Testnets are large public networks
built for testing purposes and feature currency that has no value. On the Testnet, for example,
you can use something called a faucet, which dispenses Ether to then
use that Ether to pay for gas needed to test smart
contract execution. Another benefit of Ethereum is that is it
open source, which means that the code is all available for anyone to examine and
suggest improvements to. The EEA, or Ethereum Enterprise Alliance, is a non-profit transparent organization
with hundreds of enterprise members, whose purpose is to advise on and
guide the development of Ethereum. The existence of the EEA demonstrates
a commitment to the health and future of this blockchain as
an enterprise grade system with solid development fundamentals. As developer communities operate,
systems become more abstracted and feature sets get richer. Ethereum is no different. Some of the shortcomings of the Ethereum
platform are being addressed by tools and extensions being created by developers. One example is the IPFS, or
the Interplanetary File System. File storage is prohibitively expensive on
a blockchain, as every node must store and process it, and in tiny, expensive blocks. The IPFS addresses this by providing
a BitTorrent like network of files, stored in a distributed way,
and much more cheaply. The idea behind the IPFS is to
create a fully distributed web. Rather than having single
servers serving files, you have distributed
networks that do the same. It's also built for
interaction with smart contracts. Swarm is another solution similar to IPFS. You may be wondering how exactly a user
can interact with the Ethereum network. This is where Metamask fits in. MetaMask is a browser extension that
lets a user access Ethereum dapps. By signing in with MetaMask, you are
effectively confirming your identity and can use that across a range of
applications in the same way that logging into your main Google account lets you
access YouTube, Gmail and Google Docs. MetaMask lets you do the same, except it's
not centralized in the same way Google is. It lets you review and approve or reject
interactions with a blockchain on your behalf and take full control
of your identity and data. In one of the case studies, we'll be
looking at uPort, which is a more robust self-sovereign identity management
dapp built with Ethereum. Next, we're going to close out this module
with a look at the architecture of and development process behind an application
developed for the blockchain. [MUSIC]