Hi, welcome back. In this video, I would like to discuss general IS audit procedure. For example, assume that you guys have been hired by an organization to audit their activities, or else you're working for one of the big 4 companies. Your next audit assignment is going to be a large bank. It's going to be starting next month. Your management has informed you about a month in advance your next audit assignment. What are you going to do? How are you going to plan your audit? What's the procedure that you are going to follow? That's something we would like to discuss in this video, the audit approach, how we are going to plan the audit. If you look at the general audit procedure, you could see that there are three main parts of the activities in the general audit procedure. The planning phase, fieldwork and documentation, then reporting and follow up. I'm going to go through some of these in this video. Some of the steps have already been discussed in previous videos, and some steps will be discussed in our future videos. As I mentioned to you before, your next audit client or subject is going to be a large bank. What are we going to do before we go to audit? You have to prepare yourself, you have to plan yourself. First thing we do is, no.1, understand the audit area and audit subject. That's going to be the first step that you're going to do. Understand the audit area, know the subject. First of all, before we are going to specific bank, we'll focus on the audit area first. That means whether it's going to be financial area, whether it's going to be airline, whether it's going to be healthcare. Whatever it is, first focus is going to be the area itself. Now, we know that it's a financial industry. Of course, then we'll see whether your audit area do have any sensitive information. That's something we look at here in general. Financial industry keep customer information. If it is a bank, then you have customer information like address, credit card numbers, account information. All these are very sensitive information that we don't want others to know. These are sensitive information. Once we know that they are sensitive information. Make sure that you should look at that and see if there are some safeguard of these sensitive information, for example, Data Privacy Ordinance. Depending on which country that your subject is going to be, there are some regulations from Data Privacy Ordinance. You've got to be very careful with that. And the common risk. In the financial industry lots of people try to steal money. Sometimes they're going to hack the servers, There are common risks for the finance industry. It's very very high risk area, we should know that. And then regulations. Every financial industry has to get the license. Banks have to get the license from what we call Monetary Authority. Every country has their own monetary authority. For example in Hong Kong, it's Hong Kong Monetary Authority. If you go to Singapore, it's Monetary Authority of Singapore. So every country has their own monetary authority. The financial industries have to follow the regulation. You have to go to the monetary authority and you could check it out and see what kind of regulations that the
monetary authority do have on the banks. Because when you go and audit your client, you should make sure that your client do follows the regulations. Otherwise, it's going to be your recommendation that they should follow it. Otherwise, it's going to be trouble from the authorities for them. They could be fined, or else maybe the authority might cancel the license for you to operate. And then general IT architecture. if it's a bank, it might be having for example ATM machines. Make sure that audit is not done by one person, it should be a team of persons. Make sure that someone within your audit team would be able to audit say ATM machines, or maybe the wireless network. We should go with some team members who have the knowledge to audit different aspects of your subject. And then we look at the control breach. What does control breach mean? I'm going to audit a certain bank, say ABC bank. At the same time, it's good for you to look at the recent news, see one of the banks in America, some of the traders do bad tradings, some people try to steal money. Those kinds of bad things definitely would be happening in some banks and happened in the past, for say, something happened in an USA bank. I want to make sure that my bank in Singapore, my subject and its employee may avoid doing similar things. We will better know about what kind of recent control breach happened in the industry. Make sure that my subject, we have to focus a little bit more on my subject, and see that these kinds of things may not happen in my subject. So this is the general understanding of audit area. Now, we are going to talk about the subject, my bank, ABC bank in Singapore or Hong Kong, wherever it is. Then look at what are the specific sensitive information they have. At the same time, every organization do has their own policies and procedures, as I mentioned to you guys before, they come from senior management. You should make sure what kind of policies and procedures do your subject have, and all the employees within your subject do follow policies and procedures. How to understand policies and procedures? You can look at the documentations. Or else, what you could do is, you can interview key managers to understand. We have to decide which key managers we should interview to get specific information. What we do is, we look at the organization structure, we call it the organization chart. By looking at the organization chart, we can decide which manager would be able to give you the best information. Then we should make an appointment with them, and interview them to understand two things basically, policies and procedures, and business practices. That's very important here. Then we look at the IT architecture. What specific IT architecture do they have within your client? Make sure that we have expertise. At the same time, we have to plan your audit to make sure that someone is there to audit it. Then see whether that your subject has outsourced certain functions, maybe call center, anything outsourced to third party. Make sure that you go and audit those outsource organizations as well. You have to plan that as well. As I mentioned, interview key managers, at the same time before you go and audit, you make a tour to the key organization facilities, to get the best understanding of the organization, practices, policies and procedures. One more thing, a very good start usually is going to be the previous audit report. The previous audit report is a very, very good start usually, but not all the time. Why will we look at a previous report? We can see that there are many recommendation made by previous audit. We can check if those recommendations have been implemented or not. But that's a good start in most of the time but not all the time. Why not all the time? That's because the last point, there's a significant environment change happened since the last audit, then the previous audit may not get a big picture. For example, your bank didn't have mobile banking before. Now within last one year, they introduced mobile banking. In that case, the risk and control are totally different from what they were before. There are more risks. So previous audit report may not give the best starting point for you all. Now we have seen the audit area. We have seen the audit subject. The next step is going to be the risk assessment. We talked about risk assessment before. Then we have a general planning. After general planning, we do the detailed planning. Then what is next is, now we are going to fieldwork and documentation part. In documentation part, the first thing we do is to evaluate controls. In other words, we look at strength and weakness of controls, we have talked about controls a lot in the past. To do that, we do specific kinds of testing, we call compliance testing, substantive testing. But compliance testing and substantive testing will be discussed in details in the coming videos. And after that we have an idea about our client. We have done the testing, we check the strength and the weakness of the controls. Now, we write the report and communicate with the management or whoever asked you to audit. For example, if it is a third party, then you are going to report to maybe the government authorities. Finally what we need to do is to follow up. This is what we call general IS audit procedure. This is what we usually follow when we do the audit. Okay, see you soon.