Gloria. Now, I would like to ask you what
are the qualities that IS auditors
should be equipped with according to your
understanding? Yeah. Sure. I think for auditor, especially in the IS field, of course, you have to know IS. Yes. Definitely. This is basic knowledge that I think most of the IS auditor
they should possess. Other than that, I would
say would be the some of the business knowledge,
because we need to combine both the business and IS knowledge so that
we can facilitate our audit review work
and especially talks to the management because not
all the management knows IS, but many of them just
know the business. That means communication skills
are also very important. That's right. You can
present your idea well so that the management understand what is the
point that you're making, so communication
skills is important. Do they have to be very technical or just different
technical areas? Some of them like
wireless technology, some of them like special
technology like ATM. So do they have to be
very technical or? I think it really depends because we have different expertise
in different technology. It's a teamwork. Yes. So without them just alone to work on specific engagements, but we try to pull in
different expertise. It could be someone who know the wireless technology part, the networking, or
some of them may know the latest
Fintech technology. So we need to combine
all this knowledge from different individuals. Find a fantastic team together. Yes, exactly, so that we can have a very robust information and knowledge that we can
communicate with the clients. That means that to be an
IT auditor successful, not necessarily be
very technical. So they can contribute different
ways in the process of information systems
auditing exercise, right? I think especially
for a new joiners, general understanding would be good enough because usually, we will train them to have different expertise in
different technicalities. I know that big four
companies of like Deloitte giving them a very
good training for them to equip themselves and some of my students
later on become IT consultants with
the fantastic training that they get in a big
four companies, right? Yeah, exactly because
we have some people who are really really technical
in the network areas. Some of the people
would be having very good expertise areas
in the like ERP systems. Some of them could be
having expertise in implementing certain controls
on particular platforms. Actually, it really depends on how we train up
different individuals, and also depends on
their interests as well. So they basically
fit their interest and their capabilities
and fit to your team. Exactly. So it does not a matter that
which background they are coming from as long as
they are willing to learn, willing to work hard
so then they can be fit into your team and work
with your team, right? Right. Okay. Good. Fantastic. Thank you. Welcome.