Hi guys. Welcome back. Today's video we are going to talk about compliance and substantive testing. Now, the first question that I would like to ask you guys, for you guys to think about it. What is compliance testing? As I mentioned to you guys before, Compliance testing simply means that whether the employees, whether the organizations follow the policies and procedures from the senior management or laws and regulations from the regulators. Now, let me tell you guys a simple example. When it comes to the IT compliance, we have a regulation probably from the senior management that you need to change your password once in every three months time, for example. So in this case, when the compliance officer comes in, the compliance officer would look at and see whether the organizations do follow these policies and procedures. If everybody follows, and all of your employees change their password once in three months time, that means your employees follow the regulations. That means the compliance testing is going to be passed. That is how we look at it. Now let's look at one more example, a classical example, where we look at it, and then we come up with some new regulations, new policies, and procedures. Because whenever a bad incident happens, no matter where it is, we learn lessons from that. We don't want this bad thing happen in the future, so the management comes up with policies, and procedures, as well as regulators come up with new regulation. Management comes with policies and procedures and regulators comes with the regulations. Now let's simply look at here. If you look at your bank account and bank balance, you would see that your bank balance ends up with only two decimal places, $123.45, only up two. The bank calculates your balance every day, but of course your actual balance is going to be a little bit more than two decimal digits, could be 6, 7, 8, 9 added to 0.45. Banks calculate your account balance every day. There is some little amount for you, even if we don't get it, not a big deal. But think about this, bank has thousands and thousands of customers. They calculate the balance every day. Think about one year. If you add those small digits, it could be a substantial amount. So, who get that money? That money is usually got by the bank. But in this classical example, something happened some years ago. There was a programmer in the bank, wrote his own program, he changed the lines of code in the bank's system. He wrote a code and then he managed to get those whatever digits not to the bank but to his account. Nobody knew about it for many years. Eventually, the compliance officers came in and checked it out, and found that definitely this guy was doing
something like this. This kind of thing should not happen in the future. In this case what we need to do is to come up with new regulations, in other words, new controls, to reduce the risk of this kind of thing happens. Can you guys think about control? Any control that we can have to reduce the risk of this kind of thing happens in the future in other banks? The simple control could be, we have the change management. How it happens? Because the programmer could change the line of code by himself without any approval from his supervisors. Here is important that we need to have a change management. That means the change management policies and procedures were not there in that particular bank. We are talking about policies and procedures. These policies and procedure were not there in that bank. That's why he could change. It's important to have a change management in place. Now what we do is, when you do the compliance testing, possibly now most of the banks definitely have a change management procedure. That means programmers or whoever, the developers within the bank will never be able to access directly to your bank's software, line of code, systems. They have to get the approval before we let them to access it. When you look at compliance testing, when the compliance officers come and go to the bank, when the compliance officers look at the bank and see, for example, last one month, last six months, how many changes have been done to the organization? How many were given approval? It's difficult to check all of them. The way to check, what we do is, we take a sample, say, for example, 200, 300 changes have been taken place or maybe even thousands. We can't check all of them, we take a sample. What we do is, we take a sample, and then check whether those changes have been given approval. But then we found that Change 104 was not given approval. if we have good controls, we may have it in audit trails as well. By referring to audit trail, we can easily find it out. Okay, now it's failed. What does it mean now? Are you going to worry about Change 104? Yes, that's something happened without approval. We are worrying about maybe the programmer has done something for his personal benefit. In that case, what we need to do, we're going to dig deeper. We want to do the detailed analysis. What we need to do is to find out what exactly happened in 104 in the detailed analysis. That's what we call substantive testing. Let me repeat again. Compliance testing means we test whether the employees follow the policies and procedures. When we do so, we found that there is one change not given approval. When we look at whether all of them follow the policies and procedures that means change management, the change has to be given approval, but we found Change 104 is not given approval. We are worrying about it. We do the detailed analysis, we call it substantive testing. Substantive testing means detailed analysis and see the line of codes. Then we found there is a code no.3. It's something supposed not to be there. It's for the personal benefit. Compliance testing fails means we do the substantive testing. If compliance testing passes, we may not need to do substantive testing much because the substantive testing takes a very long time. Of course, when we go for compliance testing in organization, we have limited time so we are not going to spend too much time for that. The role of thumb is this, compliance testing passes, we don't have to do too much substantive testing. That's normal situation. Compliance testing passes, we don't have it. But think about a situation where compliance officer goes to a bank, and found that that bank does not have a change management procedure. That banks says that programmer should do due diligence or whatever their own judgment to do the change. Its policies and procedures come from senior management is this, the programmer has to do the due diligence, and it seems every programmer says that we do same thing. So what happen? Compliance testing passes, but still you are worrying about it because there should be a policy of change management. That policy is not there. Since it's not there, compliance testing passes. That means that there's weakness of internal controls. Control of change management should be there but it's not there. In this case, are we worrying about the changes happened during the past six months, one year? Yes, definitely. So what we are going to do? Even though in this case the compliance testing passes, we must still need to do the substantive testing. That's very important. We do substantive testing in two different situations. One is employees, organizations do not follow policies and procedures or regulations. That's one thing. Second thing is this, we don't have enough controls. That means controls are weak or we don't have controls at all. In that case, also, we do the substantive testing.