Hi guys, welcome back. In this video, we are looking at something called evidence. Of course, compliance officers would come to an organization, and see whether the organization follow the policies and procedures, or whether we have enough policies and procedures and controls to reduce risk, as well as, whether you comply with the regulation, right? So we've discussed in the previous video. What is the purpose of getting evidence? As I mentioned to you, there are many reasons that we have justified. Sufficient, competent evidence, these are what I mentioned you. Now, let's continue. How can we obtain evidence? As a compliance officer, go to organization and see whether the organization has proper controls, policies, and procedures, and follow the regulations. If we want to gather evidence, we do certain things. We look at certain documents to get evidence. Now, we have the list here. Let's look at one by one. First one, compliance officer go to organization and do their own observations. When we look at their own observations, definitely it's something important to get it. Sometimes we are going to interview some of the management, sometimes we are going to interview the employees. If they come to university, they might interview the students, they might interview the staff, they might interview the professors. This is the way that we would get evidence. Then we look at the documentation. If you're looking at a system, it has system documentation, user manuals, all kinds of things are documentation. We might look at the documentation. Documentation may have written down about the policies and procedures that must be in the organization. We can look at the documentation, then you will have an idea about what kind of policies and procedures that we have in a given organization. And then contract with external parties. As I mentioned to you guys before, when we do outsource certain of our services to third party. It could be outsourcing the call center. It could be outsourcing our data center. Those are the common ones, basically. And in that case, we must sign a contract. Sometimes we outsource a system development to another party. Because, for example, when talk about Fintech systems, complex ones like robot trading, algorithm trading. Those are very complex, difficult for you guys to develop by yourself. So most likely we are going to outsource those kinds of system development. When we do it, signing a contract is extremely important. Whatever the terms and conditions that we write in the contract is very important. When we look at the contracts, make sure that it benefits to the organization that you're going to help out. That's important. In the previous videos, we talked about two kinds of testing, compliance testing and substantive testing. Results of those testings could be evidence that you can provide. And here are two more, we call them re-performance and record confirmation. Let's look at these two. What does re-performance mean? As you all know that the salaries are calculated by a system. We have a payroll system. There's a clerk who would input your basic salary, your overtime. Then system is going to create the salary. What can happen between you and the clerk is that, you are getting a salary, you communicate with the clerk, and ask him/her to put additional 50 hrs to your salary, so that you'll be getting high salary. You can give some of the money that you get, to him/her, right? This kind of things happens all the time. When the compliance officer comes in, compliance officer sees the amount calculated by the system. At the same time, compliance officer can calculate by himself manually, without system. We can do the comparison. That is what we call re-performance. Re-performance means compliance officer calculates manually and make the comparison. That's called re-performance. Then we talk about the last one, which is confirmation. Assume that compliance officer is going to an organization. When the compliance officer talks to the IT officer, IT officer says that they have recently developed a new system, and cost is about $2 million. The new system has been outsourced and developed by the company B. The IT officer gave a receipt to the compliance officer, saying that it costs $2 million. But of course, compliance officer make his/her own judgment. It seems like the system is very, very simple. So $2 million seems to be too expensive. When you look at the receipt, you can see the contact numbers of the company B who developed the system. Then what compliance officer can do is, directly contact the company B. And ask company B, have you guys developed a new system for the company A? How much does it cost? When we do it, indeed we find out it's only $1 million. But the IT officer changed the invoice and pocketed $1 million, and put in $2 million. That's what we call confirmation, confirmation from the third party. That's important, That's also way of getting evidence when we write our compliance report. what are the determinant to evaluate evidence? Evidence has to be independent one. For example, I myself, the undergraduate program coordinator for our program. When the University Grant Commission come and do the quality assurance audit to our program. Just talk to me, ask me about the program, and write the report may not be the best thing. Because I'm the one who manages the program. I always can talk about good things about the program, right? That is not an independent evidence. They should talk to me, as well as, most importantly, they should talk to my students. To make sure that how good that we spent the money that we received from the University Grant Commission. And how good we gave the education to the students. That's important here. Qualification for example, no.2. Qualification means that if someone's talking about information security. That person should have knowledge and experience about what s/he's talking about. Objectivity means, compliance officer's own observation is better than somebody else's evidence. Finally, timing of the evidence. Make sure that we take the evidence in a correct time. For example, you know schools have course registration systems. Course registration systems are widely used at the beginning of the semester, fall semester and the spring semester. We come maybe at the winter or summer time, compliance officer goes there in the summer time. But there are only few courses available for the students. We try to get the evidence about the course registration system and we write a report. That's not a good timing. Good timing is that the vendor system is really in use, that should be at the beginning of fall semester and the beginning of spring semester. That's important. What are the techniques to gather evidence? We look at the organization structure when we go to organization. By looking at organization structure, we can see who are responsible for this management. And most importantly, we can see there are any separation of duties. Segregation of duties, as I mentioned to you guys before, that's important. And then, of course, we look at the policies and procedures within the organization. We look at documentation, as I mentioned to you. The documentation could be, say, a system development documentation. Documentation could be, say, contract. There are many, many documentation, maybe user manuals, all these things. At the same time we might interview people and get the evidence as well. And then, of course, we observe, that's also a way of getting evidence.