We all are very familiar
with financial auditing. So as we all know
that listed companies need to reviewed by financial auditors at least once a year. So financial auditing is being with us for very long time, but now we talk about
information systems auditing. So the first question
probably come to your mind would be what is the difference? Are they doing the same thing? What's the difference between financial auditing and IS auditing? Now, I would like to ask Gloria. Could you please
explain a little bit about to our audience what is the main difference between financial
auditing and IS auditing? Okay. I think many
of the people know financial auditing
especially when they read the annual report from
different listed company. That's right. So that is actually
mainly focusing on the balance sheet
and also the P&L. So those are mainly focusing
on the financial figures. Looking at the numbers. They will also look
into the business operations. But the ultimate purpose is
for the financial figures itself and see whether there is anything that
could be misleading, and the auditor would
provide the opinion on that particular
financial reports for listed companies or even through some of the non-listed companies. They may also get
the auditors to help them to audit the financial
statements as well. So that's I think many
of the people would know about that and be
familiar with that. But then for IS audit,
actually nowadays, because many of the companies or even most of the companies, they will have a lot of different technologies that helps their business to operate. We can't survive without
technology nowadays. Right, exactly. Also because of the financial
statement itself. It actually generates
from a financial systems. Systems are the
keywords here, right? Exactly. So that's
why it's really important that we
get someone to look into the system itself
and especially for their financial systems or
for those present systems, it will finally hit the
financial statements. So we need to ensure all those information
flowing through, really reliable, especially when we talk about the
financial auditors. They need to utilize
all this kind of data to perform their work. So an IS auditor is actually helping to ensure or to check the controls over their
systems and see whether it is what we call
is control reliable, whether there could be
any risk in the systems that could possibly
affect the accuracy of those data and whether
those data could be amended by somebody who are not really supposed to
do that kind of work. Yes. Sometimes some people
manipulate the data, right? Yeah. So some of the work that IS auditor will
do is they would check those assets to different
systems and see whether those system
can can be manipulated or accessed by any
unauthorized people that may impact the accuracy and also the integrity
of the data. So that's will be part of the work that IS
auditor would do. But, of course, we're
not just focusing on the financial data at the end because for some of the
work that IS auditor do, they may not be doing from
financial audit perspective. They may do it from
like, for example, an internal audit perspective or internal control perspective. Basically looking at the way things happened that
as management wish. Yeah, exactly because these days, many of the management, they will just assume that I have invested certain amount
of money in the system, so I would expect my
colleagues would really utilize this kind of systems and perform the business operations
as what they think. But in actual case, is it really happening as
what management expect? So the IS auditor, they can actually help
the management to review or those kind of systems and see whether it is really getting in line with what
the management is thinking. They give assurance. Yes, some of the projects. Give assurance to the
management and assurance to the government authorities and assurance to us, as customers. Right. Other than
assurance type of work. There are, of course,
some of the management, they just want to dig out
what are the gaps or issues. So sometimes the IS
auditor will try to help the management to
find out all those gaps, what those gaps means. That means it could
be a gap between the policy setup
within the companies, or it could be some gaps as compared to the
regulatory requirements. That's true. So the gaps between what they would like to have and what's
really practicing. Exactly. Yeah. So then that's what's so-called gap analysis sometimes. So we do call it as
gap analysis. Yes. So many of the work that
the IS auditor would do is helping the the management to really identify all these
kind of exception and, of course, not just identify the exception but
as an IS auditor, I will also provide
recommendation to the management. How to streamline the
business process, how can we improve
information security, how can you improve the
customers data protection. So all these things, auditors
give some recommendations. Those recommendations
becomes policies and procedures come from
the senior management. That's right. So for this
recommendation, of course, we need to, for each of the case, it depends on
different companies, different industries
and also depends on different requirements from
the regulators so that we can come up with
a better solution for the management
to consider whether they would think of
any other ways to fix the problems or
to minimize the gap. So this is how the IS
auditor would do most of the time and in some
other occasions, we're not really just positioning
us as an auditor alone. Sometimes we'll also
help our clients to provide different
advisory as well. So you call IT advisory. Yeah. We're trained to position ourself to advise our clients by providing
them with some, for example, value-added
recommendation. How can they start
with new technologies, how can they use new technologies to streamline their
business process, and compete with their
business customer, the competitors, right? So we're not just picking the wrong things
from this process. Not really policing,
but also helping them. Helping them as well. I don't like in auditors always
looking at trying to find out what are the things that you guys do wrong
but not really that. You do something
called IT advisory. That means how they
can use streamline, the new business processes, new technologies to compete better with the competitors
and be more productive. Yeah. Because we serve different clients and
different companies, we can share our knowledge and experience with our
clients in terms of how they can improve and enhance
the existing practice so that they can really compete with their
competitors as well. So it's really important. It's survival is the
most important things in a competitive environment
like today, right? Yes. So I think we all do have a
very good understanding now. At least difference between
we should thank to Gloria for giving us a good
understanding and, of course, try to understand
the main difference between financial auditing and IT
auditing. Thanks, Gloria. Thank you.