Hi guys. Now we are trying to understand what is risk. I always like to see engaged learning. Of course when I teach my students, I always like to have engagement. I always keep asking questions from my students. Of course, you guys are physically far away from me, but still I would like to create some sorts of engaged learning activities. I think it's the best way of learning. When I teach you guys and when you guys watch the video, this icon will appear and then what happened is, it's time for you guys to freeze your video and think. Now I have a question from you guys, and my question now is, what is risk? Please pause your video and think for a minute. What is risk? Risk, according to my understanding, is a possibility of having a negative impact. We take risk almost every moment of our life, like even if you go drive along the road, there's a risk about it. But the next question that we would like to ask is, why do we take risk? It's time again for you guys to think about it and pause your video. All right, why we take risk? According to my definition, risk is something that we think about having a positive impact. For example, we buy stocks, thinking of stock's price goes up but there is a possibility of going down. That is the risk. and of course if it goes up, definitely there are some benefits for us. That's about the definition of the risk. Now the next slide I would like to talk to you guys about the three elements of risk, which are threat, impact and probability. First look at the first element of risk, which is threats. When you look at threats, there are different kinds of threats. I would say the different categories of threats. The very first one is, natural disasters. We all know that we have earthquakes. We have typhoons. We have all kinds of natural disasters we face in our lifetime. That's the first group of threats. second group of that is man-made threats. We look at the man-made threats, there are two different kinds of man-made threats. The first one we call it as internal and the second one we call it as external. So difference between internal and external is, something that within your organization and try to steal your data, because they have legitimate access to your data, and they try to steal your data probably because they want to sell to your competitors and gain undue advantage. That's we called fraud. The second kind of man-made threat is external. That means someone not within your organization, someone outside your organization try to hack your data and steal the data. Now is time for you guys to think again. Who can give you the highest damage? Is it internal or external? The internal man-made threats are more serious than the external ones because internal person that within the organization have the access rights to your data, and of course your business process, so that they can damage you the most compared to external. If you look at past statistics, the damage or impact has been given by your employees or someone external you could see that the numbers would speaks themselves, internal ones give more damage to the organization than external ones. We got to be very careful of giving legitimate access, as well as keep track, we got to monitor how things happen in the organization because some people might do some bad things from time to time. It's time for us to look at the next group of threats, which is technical. When it comes to technical, there are different kinds of technical threats. It could be hardware failure. It could be software failure. Hardware failure means your hard disk might be damaged, you might lose the data in your hard disk. Or maybe your servers could be down. All these kinds of hardware failure. The next one is going to be software. Your core software can be corrupted because of various reasons, maybe virus attack, maybe just hard disk failure and you're done with software. As well as the next one could be the network. Your network could be down because of many reasons, failure of the equipment's within your network, maybe routers, switches, hubs are down, maybe cables are broken. There are many reasons that network could be down. Sometimes it could be too much load to your network. Maybe the bandwidth is used up too much, so there are too much concurrent access to a server, that's possible. The last one could be the data. These are what we call the different kinds of threats. Now we are moving to the next element of risk, which is the impact. Impact means we try to measure the damage due to the threat that you face. When you measure it, sometimes we can easily measure in terms of dollars, for example, because of the threat you lost your business, and then you see that the dollar amount that you lost. Because of earthquake, we have to rebuild your entire premises. You know how much would be costed for the renovation of your buildings. Those you are putting a dollar amount. But not all the time or situation that we can put dollar amount to measure the impact. For example, after the threat, you lost your customers and customer reputation, your organization's reputation, the customer morale, and employees morale, customer satisfaction. All these things are hard to measure directly. We call those qualitative measures. We can't measure directly, but still we need to measure. What we do is, we come up with scale, low, medium, high, and then scale of one to five, negligible to major, 1-5, 1-3. That's how we are going to measure, we call it qualitative. Finally we look at the last element of risk, which is probability. Probability means likelihood of having risk. Example is, how likely will the next earthquake of magnitude 6.5 happen? How can we make that judgment? We look at historical data, like, for last 50 years, last 100 years or go up to whatever the time that we've kept the data, and see like how often those earthquakes happen, and we are going to make prediction for the future. Again the likelihood or probability, we put a scale of 1 to 5, because it's not a direct measure, it's going to be indirect measure. This could be, remember, subjective because one person would say that the next earthquake of magnitude 6.5 will be happening in another two years time. Another one could be say that no, it's going to be next two and a half years time. It could be very much to be subjective. All right, so now we have an idea about risk. We could continue, in the next video, to talk about the risk analysis and risk management to understand risk better. All right guys, see you soon.