Hi guys. Welcome back. Can you remember, in the last video, we talk about in general risk? In this video, our focus is going to be risk management process. When it comes risk management process, there are three elements of risk-management process, risk assessment, risk mitigation, and risk re-evaluation. In this video, our main focus is about risk assessment. What is risk assessment? Why do we want to do it? The main reason of doing risk assessment is to identify area of having risk. Different organizations do have different exposures, in other words, having different kinds of risk to a different degree. That's what we're going to look at it. We're going to look at the areas of having higher risk to organization, to operation. Can you guys remember, we discussed about risk here? And the last video we talked about three elements: threat, impact, and probability. When we do the risk assessment, we take each and every threat, and try to determine the impact of that particular threat, as well as probability of that threat. In order to do so, we've got to begin with impact, and the first thing that we're going to do next is step one, define the impact. Define impact also can be a bit subjective. As you can remember. impact is mostly qualitative. We can't put a dollar amount directly. We have a scale, one to five. Let's think about, our threat is going to be an earthquake. Definitely, when that earthquake happens, there will be impact to the people working in your organization. Let's have a look at number one, negligible. We can see people in number one is in very minor, negligible injury. If we look at number two, minor, people's in a minor injury, but still your employees could continue working. There is no absence or maybe applying for medical leaves, they could maybe do some first aid, but they still could continue. If we look at moderate for the people again, we can see that major injury, health effects. That means that there are some work absence, your employee is going to apply leave and then they are going to be absent for some time. Then we look at serious, for example, again, people. So maybe one person has single fatality, or may be permanent total disability. Then number five, I would quantify it as the multiple fatality. When we define impact, we could look at what different areas of your business are going to be impacted, and then we're going to go to define these different areas. By defining all these different areas into this definition of impact, it makes your risk assessment much easier. Understand? This is simple example. If it's operation, we could think about it that way, If it's going to be assets, then you've got to define the number one to number five. Whatever the area is going to have impact in the organization, we need to define that. The next step, step two, is going to be define the probability of that having particular risk. Usually, probability is again subjective. We do it based on the historical data. For example, we are thinking about the probability of having an earthquake to organization, to a premises. So we'll look at last 100 years, 200 years of data, and see how often this happens, and then helps us make a prediction about whether it will happen in another five years time, another 10 years time, maybe another one or two years time. The probability definition is going to be much easier to do it. The definition I give you guys in this particular slide can be used to most of the organizations, to any of your companies. That's possible. Now what we have done is, we defined the impact, the probability. Next is, take each and every threat, and then we create this table. We call this table risk matrix. See depending on where that particular threat is going to lie, and then we create this what we call a risk matrix. When we look at risk matrix, you can see that there are three zones. The green zone, yellow zone, and the red zone. The green zone we call it having areas of low-risk. We don't have too much issues about it. I think everything seems to be under control, and there is not much high risk over there, If it is yellow, we call it medium, 7 to 14, and risk is moderate, in other words, we call it medium. But still, I think there's not a big issue to your organization. When it goes to high risk, definitely, we need urgent attention. There's very serious issues now. Continuing those operations under this high risk area seems to be a big threat to the organization. So we need to have urgent attention. We have to think about ways of reducing this risk. The ways of reducing this risk is, we call it risk control. We have to come up with different control measures to reduce those risk. All right, lets talk about an example. You have your online server, where your employee is going to access to the server to continue business. In this online server, it has some critical information to you, some confidential information to your organization. Now, we have to make some measures, in other words, controls, to reduce the risk that people will access it, probably cyber hacking to the online server, and try to steal the data from your server. Now, there's a threat. What's next is, once we look at the threat, then we have to think about the other two elements of the risk, which is the impact and the probability. Now it's time for you guys to think about, what would be the impact to organization if any case that cyber attacks, cyber hacking happened to your organization? And what will be the probability to your organization? It's time for you guys to think about it and pause the video. All right. Let's see the impact. According to my definition, as you know that it's subjective, I rate it as serious to the operation. That means this breakdown of key activities lead to reduction in performance. So now we understand impact, what is next is to think about how possible would it happen, in other words, determine probability. According to my experience, it's very likely to happen to your organization, because your organization, probably a financial institute, of course, hackers would like to access to your service, try to steal some data, and maybe do some unauthorized activities. Once we defined the impact and the probability, next step is going to be put that into a risk matrix. Once you put that into a risk matrix, you could see that probably is four and impact is four, and then it's going to be 16. It lies in red area. What does that mean? It's high risk, needs urgent attention. And of course, now what we need to do is, we should not continue our business in this high risk area. What we should do now is to come up with ways to reduce the risk. Go to at least the yellow area, or possibly to green area. How can we do that? What we need to do is, reduce the risk, and the way to reduce risk is using controls. How do we use controls? Here comes to the next step of risk management process, which is risk mitigation. In the next video, we are going to talk about risk mitigation. I look forward to seeing you guys soon.