Welcome back guys. Remember that in the last video, we talked about risk management, and then we have seen that we can manage the risk, or reduce the risk, using controls. Controls are extremely important to reduce the risk. In this video, we would like to explore more about controls, and try to understand what are the different kinds of controls we have? What are those? How those controls can reduce the risk? Now what do internal controls mean? It's time for you guys to think about it. Internal controls mean policies. It can be a policy, a procedure, or a practice, whatever we implement to reduce the risk. Think about this, you have your data within your organization and you want to reduce the risk. The control could come from your senior management and all the data kept in your server has to be encrypted. That's the policy, procedure from your senior management. And at the same time sometimes, somebody might steal your username and password, and try to have unauthorized access to the company information. Then from senior management they might come up with the policy saying that, every employee must change their username and password at least once in three months time. It's a policy and procedure to reduce the risk. The senior management within the organization comes with the policies and procedures. Those policies and procedures would be implemented by the IT people as controls. Policy and procedure could be, change the password once in every three months time. How it was controlled? How it was implemented? IT people might send an email to all the employees to change, usually you guys just simply delete that email. How can we implement it? The way of implementing is that, if you don't change your username and password once in three months time, your account is going to be freezed. That means you can't use the previous one anymore. You must change in order to continue to have access to this system. It's a way of implementing. We have policies and procedures, at the same time, the other way is that comes from government, laws and regulations. Laws and regulations can also be controls. At the authorities level, government organizations level, they think that financial industry, for example, has to make a reasonable effort to protect the client or client's data. In that sense, they might come up with the controls. They might come up with the policies and procedures. Let me give you some general examples of these three types of controls: preventative, detective and corrective. Preventative control means that if you have antivirus software installed in your computer, whenever there could be some virus attacks to your computer, your antivirus software is going to prevent that attack. That's an example of preventative controls. Detective control, sometimes the security administrators keep firewalls, that firewalls could detect any of these unauthorized access to the system and would give alarm to the security administrators. That's an example of detective controls. And a very common corrective control is that we back up data. Because we have back up the data, we can do the restoration. That means correct whatever that we lose it. That's an example of corrective controls. Now, we're going to look at a more practical example, which is the fire. Let's see that example in the next slide. The example is a risk of fire. Risk of fire could happen at any time, and anywhere. So think about that, your organization, the place you work, the place you study, your University, your school, or your workplace might have a risk of fire. Yes, everywhere. Now we could come up with controls to reduce the fire within your organization, in your school. Can you list 15 controls to reduce the risk of fire? Assume that senior management in the organization, in your school, hired you guys as consultants, and asked you guys to come up with controls. Recommend some controls to senior management to reduce risk of fire. So spend a little time, think about it, pause the video, and see whether you can come up with 15 examples of controls to reduce the risk of fire. Now I would like to show you a typical list of 15. I always keep asking my students when I teach them in my class to come up with 15. This is a typical list that came up from my students Just have a look at these 15. Pause the video and have a look at these 15 controls. I'm sure that you come up with similar ones, very much similar. Now I have a question. Looking at this list, the list that you have created. Can you categorize them as preventative, detective and corrective? I'm sure that takes some time, it can be challenging. Take some time, pause the video, look at the list I gave you guys, and look at the list that you have written. Write down which one is preventative, detective or corrective. I hope you come up with the good list. This is what usually my students respond. They usually make almost everything right, except probably one of them, they make mistakes most time. So, okay, one of them is wrong, out of these 15. Can you guess which one it is? If you can guess it, of course, you have a good understanding of controls. Which one is not correct? All right, this is the incorrect one, install fire extinguisher. My students usually classify it as corrective control. They think that would correct the fire. Then I asked simple question from them. Your desk is burning, and you take the fire extinguisher. and you just spray to your desk, and magically your desks become as usual before, does it happen? Not really. So it's definitely a preventative control. What kind of preventive control is this? It reduces the impact. We understand that preventative controls could reduce the impact. That means, if we don't use a fire extinguisher, the damage would be much, much more than if you do. That's a simple example here. The next thing to understand that is, there are 15 controls, I would like to rank them, and try to have an idea which one should come first. For example, your senior management says that 15 are too many. Can you reduce to 5? In which 5, in this case, is the most important to your organization. In that case, you could rank them. So could you please think about it? You probably can think about which 2, 3 or 4 that we should come first if you can have very few controls within the organization. Which ones should they be? Now, before we go to the next slide for my explanation, we look at, in general, the preventative controls should come before the detective ones, because we want to prevent whatever happen first. Then detect as soon as possible, finally correct. It's good to have a mix of all the controls. but first one should be preventative, prevent as much as possible. And then detect as soon as possible. Finally, if we couldn't prevent, or if you couldn't detect earlier, or whenever we detect it, we should do the correction. Okay now, which one should come first? These two, number 9 and number 10, which is no naked flame in the building, no smoking, should come before anything else. Can you guess why? Why 9 and 10 should come before anything else? The main reason is this, remember, we talk about preventative controls. Let's think back the definition of risk. When we talk about risk, we have 2 elements of risk. First one is threat, of course, that we look at different threats. And then what? Reduce the probability and the impact. Which one should come first in preventative controls? Reduce the probability should come before reduce the impact. If you look at the list, no naked flame, no smoking, definitely reduce the probability of occurring the fire. This one should come first before reducing the impact. Now, let's go back to our list. When you go back to list again, install fire alarm, it's very clear to all of us, it's a detective control. Use fire proof building materials, it's a preventative control. What kind of preventative control is that? It is to reduce the impact, because fire proof material means it doesn't help to spread the fire within your organization. And sprinklers is preventative control, again, reduce the impact. That means whenever there is a fire broke out, after sprinklers are going to spray waters, and then of course, it could reduce the impact. Fire drill, we practice it at least once a year. In the event of fire, we know how to escape as soon as possible, that would reduce the impact to us. That means less damage to us, less impact to us. Detective controls are always easy to interpret. An escape route, we know how to go out as soon as possible, reduced impact again. The education workshops could be both preventative and detective. We've talked about fire extinguishers, right? And then backup systems are corrective ones. Once we lose the data, we use backup for the restoration. So backup is kind of corrective control. Regular maintenance of devices, if you have regular maintenance of devices, that means devices may not likely to malfunction, or maybe create fire, maybe short circuit of devices, or something happen to the devices. Regular fire department inspections, they would come and see that everything's in place. That could be the preventative control, and of course, again reduce impact of the fire. Fire insurance is a corrective control, because once the fire happens, using the insurance, we will be able to cover up the expenses. That's going to be a corrective control. And CCTV camera, so as we all know, they are detective ones. Let's go back to the slides that we have been talking, which is, the most important one should come first all the time is, reduce the probability, and next is to reduce the impact. Preventative control should come first.