Hello, I'm Percy Dias, teaching information systems here in The Hong Kong University
of Science and Technology for more than 20 years. Welcome all of you to my course. Information Systems Auditing,
Controls, and Assurance. Information systems
change our lives a lot. The way we work, the way we
play over many years. About 20 years ago, we had to go to the bank branch physically and get
our services done. Then about 10 years ago, with e-Banking
development, we could do some of the banking services
in front of our computers. Now, we can see that almost everybody has a
mobile phone in their hand. With this, then we
have mobile banking. With the virtual banking, we don't have to go
to the bank branch. We could do everything
using our mobile phone. Problem here is this, whether the money that I'm going to deposit in the virtual bank, will it be safe enough? Somebody need to check those
information systems to see whether information systems work they supposed to be. So the human touch is the one given by the Information
System Auditor. Now, I would like to introduce a practitioner who has been practicing information
systems auditing for many decades. Gloria Luk. Hi Gloria, nice to
meet you again. Could you share with us why Information System Auditing is important in
organizations nowadays? I think nowadays, IS Auditing is getting
more and more important, given that many of the
companies nowadays, you cannot imagine any of them would not
use technologies. That's true. Right. That's why it
is very important that IS Audit is part
of their consideration. Right. Given that they have adopted
different technologies. Right. We need to ensure
that whether those technologies it's really
reliable especially That's true. from the management perspective, whether they can rely on those system data,
business data to do- That's right. -their financial analysis. To do their protection
of their business. To understand their customer, what are their behavior, and how could they improve the expectation or the
customer experience. Yeah, because it's a
competitive world, right? Yes. It's really important nowadays to have
all these kinds of advice to be provided to the management and also
even to the public. So that they can give an idea to the public
and management, in terms of how the
system is providing the solution for the
business operations, how it can actually
helps them to improve all those business operations, how would it be more efficient to perform their
daily work or whether it is possible to
help the management to minimize some tedious
many work as well. That's actually
really important to have IT Auditor or IS
Auditor to get in to help the companies and their management so
that they could enhance their existing IT controls within their IT environment
of the companies. At the very beginning, I
will explain to you guys the most important keywords in Information Systems Auditing, which are Risks and Controls. Then will talk about
IS Audit procedures. The next part would be how to embed controls into
your information systems. We talk about systems
development life cycle and how the controls can be implemented in the
information system itself. Finally, things keep changing. We have to add new modules to the systems. We have to correct problems with your
information systems, we call it Change Management. One of the very important
area in information systems. These are the important
key things that I am going to go through with
you all in this course. IT auditing is a team work. In IT Auditing team, we have a lot of people
with lot of specialties. So if you are IT person, who would like to getting
to know more about controls and assurance?
Yes, it's for you. If you're the management people,
who'd like to learn about a little bit technology
and join the IT auditing? Yes, this is for you. This is a course for someone that would
like to work hard, who would like to develop
yourself for the future. IT people, non-IT people, doesn't matter, even if you
don't have an IT background. If you get into the Big 4
companies, they're going to train you well. So, look forward to see
you all in my course.