Welcome back. In the previous video, we discussed about the risk assessment. Now it's time to look at the next step of risk management, which is risk mitigation. What is risk mitigation? Risk mitigation means, reduce the risks using controls. Let's think about an example. The current example that we're going to think about is, you keep your confidential information in your server, and it's connected to internet. So anybody can access to the information in the server. In that case, it's really high risk because not only your employees or your customers can access the information, but also somebody would like to steal the data. Maybe hackers will be able to access your data, which is risky for example. Risk is 100% because there is no control whatsoever. Now, how can we reduce the risk? We want to reduce risk to 80%. To do that, we have come up with some controls, right? Now can you think about a control? Yeah I would like to have a control having just authentication, just username and password, so that at least a controlled access to the server. Okay? 80%. I would like to reduce further. Is it possible to reduce further? That means we have to come up with more controls to reduce the risk, right? Now we decide to add the firewall. Adding a firewall would reduce the risks for example up to 60%. Still not happy? We would like to reduce further. Now I want to reduce the risk to 50%. To do so we have to add more controls. Now what we are going to do is, to encrypt the data. What we are going to keep in the server, so that only those who can decode the data would be able to find the information in the server. So still 50%, but I want to reduce further to 40%. We need to have more controls. To do so then we are going to add the bio-metric devices as an additional way of authentication. So now it's 40%. Now another question is, we come up with all the controls in the world and then can we decide in one point of time that our risk is 0%? That means we eliminate the risk. Is it possible? I don't think so. That means it's not possible to eliminate the risk. That's very important, remember that. We can reduce the risk using controls. But now you can see that we started from 100%, total exposure and then 80, 60, 50 and 40. The next question is this, which level are we going to stop and who make that decision? Is it you as an IT people or someone else? To which level? Who decide it? Answer is, that decision is made by the senior management, because if something goes wrong within the organization, they have to have ultimate responsibility. They have to bear the ultimate responsibility. So the decision is made to stop with the 60, 40 or 50 by the senior management. Why? This stops at where because as you can see that, more and more controls means cost is higher and higher. They would try to balance between cost and benefit, the cost and the risk. They would balance between these two and say stop. In this case, for example 60%. We put only username and password and the firewall and they think that is alright. Still there is a 60% of risk, right? Management is not happy. Because if something goes wrong, it's going to be ultimately my responsibility right? Do they have any other choices? Yes, the next choice we have is, to transfer the remaining risk to third party, for example, buying insurance. Now the question to ask is this, we reduce up to 60 percent and then transfer the remaining to the third party. Why can't we just transfer it without doing any controls whatsoever? Problem here is this, if you do it without any controls, then the insurance agent will come and do their own risk assessment to the organization. The insurance premium that you have to pay would be extremely high. Organizations always reduce the risk using controls to a level they feel comfortable. In other words, to a level that management feel most comfortable. If they are still worrying about the remaining risk, then we buy the insurance and transfer it to the third party. Now, we reduce the risk using controls. We transfer the remaining risk to third party. Do you have any other options? Yes, the last option I would say is to avoid the risk. What is "avoid the risk"? Let me explain with an example. We are bank and we would like to go for e-banking. It seems that e-banking is high risk to organization. We are worrying about the data lost, maybe hacking to your customers information. You decided, we'll continue with our traditional banking but no e-banking whatsoever. That is, avoid the risk. What is the difference between eliminate the risk and avoid the risk? Eliminate the risk means we still go for e-banking and we come up with many many controls and decide, we don't have risks at all. That's eliminating. But avoid the risk means, no, we don't do e-banking, but we do traditional banking only. At the same time I tell you guys this is the last option, right? Why is it a last option? What do you think? Because if we don't do e-banking, there are some customers within the organization who'd like to have services from your bank but they like e-banking, Since you don't provide this service to those customers, they would like to go to other banks. As a result of that, you might lose some customers. Summary of risk mitigation. Reduce using controls to a level acceptable to the management, transfer the risk to a third party, and avoid the risk. Remember, cannot eliminate the risk.